Chapter 16 — Karaikal Ammaiyaar

Thiruchitrambalam. Periyapuranam, Part 501, by Sekkizhar Swamigal, Thirunindra Sarukkam, Karaikal Ammaiyaar Puranam. On Mount Kailash, the Lord addresses Ammaiyaar as "Ammaiye." Sekkizhar Peruman continues to sing: "Anganan, calling 'Ammaiye,' she rose, prostrating at His lotus-red feet, saying 'Appa.' The Lord, adorned with white conch earrings, looked at her and asked, 'What do you desire from us?' She stood reverently and spoke." This is the next verse. Lord Shiva, who is Anganan, addresses our Ammaiyaar as "Ammaiye." Here, Sekkizhar Swamigal uses "Anganan" as a divine name for Lord Shiva. "Anganmai" means a gaze of grace. It means that compassionate look. Earlier, Umaiyammaiyar, the daughter of the Himalayas, asked, "What is this love that comes in the form of a skeleton through your divine gaze?" Here, the Lord's divine gaze was directed at her, thinking, "This one who comes through My divine gaze is the Ammai who will cherish Us." Therefore, in this verse, Sekkizhar Peruman refers to Lord Shiva as Anganan. As Lord Shiva, Anganan, thus bestowed His grace by calling "Ammaiye," Karaikal Ammaiyaar immediately prostrated at the Lord's feet, saying "Appa." When Ammaiyaar calls the Lord "Appa" here, what does this word "Appa" mean? It means the one who is the cause for the entire world to appear, exist, and then dissolve. This is the meaning of the word "Appa." "Oduṅki malattu uḷḷatām" is the first sutra of Sivagnana Botham. This world, having dissolved in Lord Shiva, the cause of dissolution, will reappear from Lord Shiva, the cause of dissolution, when it is created again. Therefore, the word "Appa" signifies that Lord Shiva is the cause for the entire world to appear, exist, and then dissolve. "The one who gave birth to all the worlds" is from Sundaramoorthy Swamigal's Thevaram, for the Thiruvettipakkam site. "He is the father and mother to all" is from Thirugnanasambandha Peruman Puranam, 69th verse. "I come into your creation, stand, and then dissolve back into you" is the implication of Ammaiyaar calling Him "Appa" here. The Lord, out of the love with which she cherished Him, bestows His grace by calling her "Ammaiye." But even that grace, that quality of being called "Ammaiye," came from the Lord. Therefore, "You gave me that quality too. So, you are the first one," Ammaiyaar says here through the word "Appa." In Thirunavukkarasu Peruman Puranam, Thirugnanasambandha Peruman, who is Aludaiya Pillaiyar, lifts Thirunavukkarasu Nayanar, who prostrated at his feet, and calls him "Appare." Thirunavukkarasu Peruman also says, "Adiyen" (Your servant). We can recall that here too. Thus, before Lord Shiva, who had graced her by saying "Ammaiye," Ammaiyaar prostrated at His feet, saying "Appa," and then rose. The Lord's grace in calling Ammaiyaar "Ammaiye" before Ammaiyaar called Him shows the abundance of His compassion. Not only that, but with the help of that gracious word, Ammaiyaar uttered the gracious word "Appa." The birth of that gracious word is also implied here. Thus, Lord Shiva asks Ammaiyaar, who had prostrated and risen, "What do you desire from Us here?" Lord Shiva asks Ammaiyaar, "What boon do you wish from us?" Earlier, He looked at her, called her "Ammaiye," and looked at her – that was a look intended to bestow grace. Now, He looks at Ammaiyaar and asks, "What boon do you want?" This is a special look intended to grant the boon Ammaiyaar asks for and to keep Ammaiyaar eternally at His feet. The Lord asks Ammaiyaar, "What boon do you desire from us?" Ammaiyaar replies to Him. This forms the next verse. This verse is well-known to all Saivite devotees. It is the 60th verse in Ammaiyaar Puranam. "I desire unending blissful love, and then I desire not to be born again. If there is rebirth, I desire never to forget you. And further, I desire to be at your feet, singing with joy, when you dance, O Serpent-adorned One." This is that verse. Ammaiyaar asks Lord Shiva, who asked what boon she wanted. She desires love that never diminishes, that is, love for the Lord, and then she asks again. She desires the boon of not being born again. If there is rebirth, she desires the boon of never forgetting Him. Along with these, she desires one more thing: "When you dance, O Serpent-adorned One, I wish to be at your feet, singing with joy." Sivakavimani Aiya offers a very subtle commentary on this sacred verse. First, it says, "I desire unending blissful love, and then I desire." First, Ammaiyaar desired unending blissful love. This should be understood in two ways: unending bliss and unending love. "Irravaadha" means imperishable, indestructible, eternal. Therefore, Ammaiyaar desires eternal bliss and eternal love. She desires it in the negative form. She desires "unending love" in the negative form. She uses this negative form to emphasize the ultimate reality. It is a poetic tradition that stating something in the negative emphasizes the meaning more than stating it positively. Accordingly, Ammaiyaar, who asks for eternal love and eternal bliss, states it as "I desire unending blissful love" in a negative form to convey the ultimate reality. Here, bliss and love are two inseparable qualities. "Bliss itself is my love" is from Thiruvasagam. "They rejoice in bliss through love" is from Periyapuranam, Thirukkootta Sirappu, 342nd verse. Therefore, bliss and love are eternally inseparable qualities. Why does she desire this love? Because this love is the foundation for all attainments. The foundation for all attainments is the love that souls have for the Lord. Therefore, Ammaiyaar first desires and obtains that love. And that love, too, should be eternal love, imperishable love, everlasting love, she desires and obtains. "I desire unending blissful love, and then I desire." After desiring and obtaining this love, she desires again. What does she desire? She desires "not to be born again." All people who have taken birth, if they truly wish for something, if they want to obtain a boon, it is the boon of "not being born again." That boon of "not being born again" is the boon that all great people have said is essential for people who suffer in birth to desire and obtain. Why do we come here by being born? To avoid being born again. This is a truth that all great people have unanimously shown. "To cleanse the impurity, the consciousness is the world-form" is from Thirunavukkarasu Swamigal's Thevaram, Fourth Thirumurai, 75th Thiruppathikam, seventh verse.

"O Avinashi, my Lord, I pray to You for no more births," is from Sundaramoorthy Swamigal's Thevaram, Thiruppukkozhiyur, also known as Avinashi, third verse. "He protected and saved me from being born again" and "Not to come back here and be entangled in karma and rebirth" and "He will cut off this ruined birth, and I will praise You" are the sacred words from Thiruvasagam, composed by Manikkavasagar Peruman. And countless other sacred words pray to the Lord, saying, "I do not want birth." "If you desire, desire not to be born again; other desires lead to non-desire" is the 362nd Kural from the chapter "Avar Aruthal" (Cutting off desire). "If I do not see my Lord and prostrate, and do not perform service with my hands, even if I attain the heavens, I do not desire it," and "I thought I would cut off birth" are the sacred words from Ammaiyaar's wonderful Thiruvanthathi. Since it is said, "If you desire, desire not to be born again," if one desires, that is the only thing to desire. Since it is said, "If you desire, that desire will lead to non-desire," "Desire non-desire from Him" is the 40th verse of Thirukalittruppadiyar. Thus, all great people have desired only "not being born again." Ammaiyaar here desires from the Lord, "I desire not to be born again." She continues to desire. "If there is rebirth again, I desire never to forget You." Why does Ammaiyaar mention "If there is rebirth again" here? Because first, Ammaiyaar desires not to be born again. The Lord also gives what the devotees desire. He will give what those who desire want. Therefore, the Lord will grant the boon of not being born again, as Ammaiyaar desired. But that will only be attained in due course. Until the time comes to attain that state of not being born again, one must be born to exhaust the karmic residues of past actions. Therefore, Ammaiyaar sings, "If by chance I am born again," and mentions it here as "If there is rebirth again." So, until the state of not being born again is attained, the accumulated karmas must be exhausted. Such births might occur again for the sake of karmic exhaustion. If such births occur, Ammaiyaar asks, "I desire never to forget You in all those births." We can recall Arjuna's tapas here. When Arjuna performed tapas desiring the Pasupatastra, and the Lord appeared before Arjuna, Arjuna then asked the Lord for liberation, or Mukti. So, the Lord was about to give Arjuna both the Pasupatastra, for which he had performed tapas, and then Mukti. But how does He give it? He tells Arjuna, "Now receive the Pasupatastra for which you performed tapas. The Mukti you asked for upon seeing Me, I will grant you in your next birth." And so, in the next birth, He caused Arjuna to be born as Kannappa Nayanar on Thirukalathi mountain and granted him Mukti there. Therefore, the Lord makes souls experience the remaining karmic accounts that need to be experienced and then grants them Mukti. The Lord grants the state of not being born again. Therefore, souls do not know the account of the remaining karmic residues that need to be experienced. That is why Ammaiyaar says, "If there is rebirth again," meaning, "if there is a birth," and thus asks that in all those births, no matter what kind of birth it is, "I desire never to forget You." Thirunavukkarasu Peruman's prayer, "Even if I am born as a worm, O Punnaiya, grant me the boon that Your feet never leave my mind," comes to our mind here. Therefore, Ammaiyaar desires that in any kind of birth, "I desire never to forget You." She desires "never to forget You."

What does "never" mean here? It means that no matter what the situation, whether in distress or weakness, whether living or dying, no matter what the birth, no matter what the time, she desires never to forget Him. This is the meaning of the word "never." She prays to the Lord that she should never forget Him. The state of not forgetting the Lord comes to us only if the Lord grants it. It can never happen through our own efforts. To make us realize this, Ammaiyaar asks the Lord Himself for the boon of not forgetting Him. "Showing illusion, showing birth, showing a mind that does not forget, showing the body" is from Thirunavukkarasu Swamigal's Thevaram, Thiruvarur Thevaram. Therefore, she asks, "If there is rebirth, I desire not to forget." Ammaiyaar does not ask for a specific kind of birth. This is because births are given according to one's karma. Therefore, Ammaiyaar does not ask for a specific birth. She asks that in any birth, she should not forget Him. Remembering and forgetting occur in all births. But the quality of not forgetting the Lord is the only one that will yield all the benefits and blessings of other austerities. Therefore, Ammaiyaar desires, "If there is rebirth, I desire never to forget You." She desires more. Now, the boon Ammaiyaar is about to ask for is the ultimate and final boon. Earlier, she desired not to be born again. If born, she desired not to forget. Beyond these two states, after the karmic exhaustion, she asks for the ultimate state she desires, right here. Even if she attains not being born again, as she desired earlier, or if she attains the state of not forgetting the Lord if born, ultimately, she desires to reside at the Lord's feet. To reside at the Lord's feet, singing, is the boon Ammaiyaar asks for now. When she asks this, she addresses the Lord as "Arava" and asks, "When You dance, I wish to be at Your feet." She addresses the Lord as "Arava." Dharma is the form of the Lord. Here, the meaning of Dharma is the grace that the Lord bestows on all beings and the justice with which He applies that grace according to each being. Thus, addressing the Lord as "Arava," she asks, "When You dance, I wish to be at Your feet, singing with joy." Why is it necessary to ask for this now? Because attaining not being born again, as Ammaiyaar desired earlier, or attaining not forgetting in any birth until that state of not being born again is achieved, is not within our control. These are all within the Lord's control. Therefore, Ammaiyaar considered this to be the best and ultimate boon: that no matter what comes, she should always remain at the Lord's feet, singing. The idea here is that if this boon is not obtained, if this boon is not received, then the previous two states are incomplete boons. "Hear the three principles of Mukti: the soul experiences pure experience" is from Unmai Vilakkam, 50th verse. "The soul itself is entitled to the experience of Shiva" is from Sivagnana Siddhiyar, Payaniyal, 11th Sutra, verse 10. Therefore, in accordance with what the scriptures say, Ammaiyaar, as the ultimate conclusion, desires the boon that she should always be singing at the Lord's feet when the Lord is dancing. The fact that she addresses the Lord as "Arava" amidst these boons and uses that name indicates her desire for Him to be within her.

Ammaiyaar desires to sing at the Lord's feet, to be singing forever and ever. This is the action of the Bhoothas (celestial beings) who sing along with the Lord's sacred dance even during the time of dissolution. These references are also found in Ammaiyaar's Thiruppathikams. Thus, Ammaiyaar asks for all these wonderful boons in this sacred verse. Sivakavimani Aiya writes in his commentary on this verse that it would be beneficial for every devotee of Shiva to recite this sacred verse daily. We will continue to reflect. Thiruchitrambalam.

Chapter 17 — Karaikal Ammaiyaar

Thiruchitrambalam. Periyapuranam, Part 502, by Sekkizhar Swamigal, Thirunindra Sarukkam, Karaikal Ammaiyaar Puranam. Ammaiyaar requests boons from the Lord. She asks for the boon to always be at the Lord's feet, singing, when He performs His sacred dance. The Lord grants her this. Sekkizhar Peruman sings about this in the next verse: "Granting the grace of union, He said, 'In the flourishing ancient city of Pazhanur, in the Alangadu of the southern direction, where I dance, you shall always see My great dance, be filled with joy, and sing of Me.' Thus spoke the Lord, who stands as the refuge for those who praise Him." This is that verse. According to the boon Ammaiyaar requested, the ultimate third boon she asked for, the Lord grants her the grace to always be at His feet. The Lord is the refuge for those who praise Him. Therefore, as Ammaiyaar desired, He bestows upon her the blessing of being at His feet. The Lord bestows His grace upon Ammaiyaar. He grants her the grace, saying, "In the ThiruvAlangadu, located in the ancient city of Pazhanur, which bestows eternal life in the southern direction, you shall always witness My great dance, be filled with joy, and sing of Me." On Mount Kailash, Ammaiyaar asks for all these boons, and the Lord, who always dances in ThiruvAlangadu in the southern direction, grants her the grace to go there and be at His feet. The Lord's sacred dance is an eternal dance, a dance that is always happening. The place where this sacred dance takes place is the holy site of ThiruvAlangadu. Therefore, that holy site is also an eternally living holy site. Just as the Lord's dance is eternal, so too is this holy site of ThiruvAlangadu, where it takes place, eternal. Therefore, the Lord commands her, "Go to ThiruvAlangadu, the ancient city of Pazhanur, which lives eternally." When referring to the site of ThiruvAlangadu, it is our Thevaram tradition to refer to it as Pazhanur ThiruvAlangadu. We have reflected on the story of Pazhanur Neeli, which occurred in the village of Pazhanur, in the Thirukurippuththonda Nayanar Puranam. ThiruvAlangadu is a village near Pazhanur. Therefore, it is our Saivite tradition to refer to both sites together. There, the Lord performs His great dance. That dance is a dance of grace, where He lifts His foot high. The name of that dance is Oordhva Thandavam. Therefore, He bestows His grace, saying, "In the flourishing ancient city of Pazhanur, in the Alangadu of the southern direction, where I dance, you shall always see My great dance, be filled with joy, and sing of Me." He grants Ammaiyaar the grace to witness that sacred dance in Alangadu, unite with the boundless bliss of Lord Shiva, and sing forever. The Sivabhoothaganas (celestial beings of Shiva) always rejoice, dancing, singing, and playing musical instruments in rhythm with the Lord's sacred dance. We can see this in Ammaiyaar's Thiruppathikams. Therefore, the Lord grants her the grace to always behold His sacred dance, sing, and be joyful. "Always" means to attain eternal, irreversible liberation. "Singing" is one of the ways of serving in devotion, as it is said, "Many will become servants there." Therefore, "always singing" here refers to the irreversible state of Mukti, or liberation, from which one does not return. The Lord grants Ammaiyaar that state. What kind of Lord is He? He is the Lord who stands as the refuge for those who praise Him. The Lord is the refuge for those who praise and worship Him. He is the only refuge. Therefore, when Ammaiyaar asked for these boons, the Lord granted them exactly as she asked. Sekkizhar Peruman continues to sing. "Having received such grace, Ammaiyaar, the embodiment of the true essence of the pure Vedas, took leave of the Lord, worshipped Him, and then, with immeasurable love, walked on her head to the sacred city of ThiruvAlangadu and entered it that very day." This is the verse. The Lord thus grants all the boons Ammaiyaar requested. Having received them, Ammaiyaar worships the Lord on Mount Kailash and takes leave. She receives permission and departs from there. What kind of Lord is He? He is the Lord who is the true essence of the pure Vedas. The Lord who is the pure essence of the Vedas and the ultimate reality. "Semporul" means Shiva. "Meipporul" means Shiva, who is eternally existent. "That which is eternally existent is Shiva" is the sixth sutra of Sivagnana Botham. Such a great Lord grants exactly the boons Ammaiyaar requested, doesn't He? The Lord grants all the boons that Ammaiyaar categorized into four as a single boon. In the previous verse, how does He bestow His grace? He says, "In Alangadu, you shall always see My great dance, be filled with joy, and sing of Me." In this sentence, all four types of boons Ammaiyaar requested are included. How? Ammaiyaar first asks for unending bliss. When the Lord says, "always be filled with joy," He grants unending bliss. Ammaiyaar asks for unending love. When the Lord says, "see My great dance," it means He has granted Ammaiyaar unending love. Next, Ammaiyaar asked for not being born again. By saying, "you shall always be there, witnessing My dance," the Lord grants the boon of not being born again. Next, Ammaiyaar asks to never forget Him. By saying, "you shall always sing there, keep singing," the Lord grants the quality of not forgetting Him. And finally, she asks, "When you dance, O Arava, I wish to be at Your feet." By saying, "you shall see My great dance in Alangadu and be there," the Lord grants that ultimate boon as well. Therefore, Ammaiyaar, having worshipped the Lord, who is the true essence of the pure Vedas and who granted her all the boons she requested, takes leave from Mount Kailash, worships Him again, and departs from there. Ammaiyaar calls the Lord "Appa." The Lord then asks her, "What do you desire from Us? What boon do you want?" Ammaiyaar asks for boons. The Lord grants those boons accordingly. After this, Ammaiyaar takes leave and departs from Thirukailai. But how did all these actions occur in Shiva, who is beyond words and mind? They occurred because, transcending the knowledge of the soul (pasugnanam) and the bonds (pasagnanam), she stood in the Shivagnanam (divine knowledge) of Shiva's experience and saw what Shiva revealed. Thus, these states were attained by Ammaiyaar. This state resulted from receiving Shiva's will. Thus, all these experiences can only be understood through Shivagnanam, through the experience of Shiva. Therefore, these things will remain incomprehensible to ordinary people. They will be known without being understood. Because ordinary people, bound by pasugnanam and pasagnanam, would not have the ability to understand those things that occurred in the Shivabhava (experience of Shiva) that arises from Shivagnanam, would they? Therefore, having taken leave from the Lord, our Ammaiyaar arrives very close to the holy site of ThiruvAlangadu. Just as she reached Mount Kailash very quickly from the coastal town of the Pandya country with the speed of thought,

Similarly, Ammaiyaar arrives near the holy site of ThiruvAlangadu from the sacred Mount Kailash with the speed of thought. Ammaiyaar possessed immense love, beyond words. With such love, she worshipped the Lord there and arrived here. Ammaiyaar's love is immense, beyond description. It is love that exists within the all-pervasiveness of Shiva. Therefore, the greatness of Ammaiyaar, which cannot be spoken of by anyone existing in the fullness of existence, in the all-pervasiveness of existence, is the greatness of Ammaiyaar. Not only that, even those who exist within the all-pervasiveness of Shiva cannot fully describe or exhaust the greatness of Ammaiyaar's immense love. How is this understood? Through the history of Thirugnanasambandha Peruman, who, out of reverence for Ammaiyaar's immense love, feared to step on ThiruvAlangadu and instead stayed outside ThiruvAlangadu and sang his Thiruppathikam. It is evident that Ammaiyaar's immense love, the greatness of her immense love, cannot be explained even by those who are within the all-pervasiveness of Shiva. Thus, when Ammaiyaar reached the holy site of ThiruvAlangadu and entered it, she walked on her head. Just as she feared to step on Mount Kailash with her feet and walked on her head, similarly, she walks on her head in ThiruvAlangadu. This is because Lord Shiva, who resides in Thirukailai, commanded Ammaiyaar to go to ThiruvAlangadu. The Lord had granted her the boon she requested in Thirukailai to be fulfilled at this site of ThiruvAlangadu. Therefore, realizing that the holy site of ThiruvAlangadu is equivalent to Kailash, Ammaiyaar, just as she reached Mount Kailash, walks on her head here in ThiruvAlangadu, without stepping on it with her feet. Sekkizhar Peruman mentions that she reached it "that very day." Therefore, just as she went to Mount Kailash with a speed far greater than the mind, here too, she reached it at that very moment. Thus, walking on her head, she enters the temple of ThiruvAlangadu. There, she enters according to custom. Having entered, Ammaiyaar arrives before the Lord. At this point, let us reflect on some facts about the holy site of ThiruvAlangadu. This holy site of ThiruvAlangadu is located on the way from Chennai to Arakkonam via Thiruvallur. This holy site can be reached from Kanchipuram, Arakkonam, and Thiruvallur. The Lord's names here are Vadaaranyeswarar, Devar Singapperuman, Alangattu Appar. The Goddess's names are Brahmaralakambal, Vandar Kuzhali. The Sthala Viruksham (sacred tree) is the Banyan tree and the Jackfruit tree. The Theerthams (sacred waters) are Senradu Theertham, Sengatcha Unmaththi Moksha Pushkarani, Mukti Theertham. Those who worshipped here include Karkodagan, Sunanda Munivar, Thirugnanasambandha Peruman, Appar Swamigal, Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, Karaikal Ammaiyaar, Paranadeva Nayanar, Pattinatthu Pillaiyar, Sekkizhar Swamigal, and others. This site is called Vadaranyam in Sanskrit. Therefore, it is called Alangadu in Tamil. This is the holy site where the Lord danced with Kali. This holy site has one Thevaram Thiruppathikam composed by Thirugnanasambandha Peruman, two Thevaram Thiruppathikams composed by Appar Swamigal, and one Thevaram Thiruppathikam composed by Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, making a total of four Thiruppathikams. This is a holy site sung by the Three Saints. In addition, two Thiruppathikams composed by Karaikal Ammaiyaar are dedicated to this site. This is the Oordhva Thandava site of Lord Nataraja. Among the Pancha Sabhas (five halls of dance), this is known as the Rathna Sabha (Jewel Hall). On the bank of the great Mukti Theertham, there is an idol of Kali who was defeated in a dance with the Lord. Lord Nataraja in the Rathna Sabha, who dances with His foot raised to the sky, is called Rathna Sabhapathi. During Panguni Uthiram and Margazhi Thiruvathirai, the Oordhva Thandava Murthy goes on a street procession twice a year to Pazhanur.

In the Puranas, including Skanda Purana, it is narrated that Kali competed in a dance with the Lord at this site and was defeated by the Lord. Afterwards, the Lord granted Kali the grace to reside at this very site. This history is narrated. In addition, the Lord fulfills the boon He had given to Sunanda Munivar to grant him the vision of His dance. The Lord, telling the defeated Goddess Kali to stay by the side of the Goddess, grants His grace. As Goddess Kali was defeated in the dance, she stood aside, overcome with shame, and worshipped. The Lord then, with compassion, stopped His Thandavam and looked at Kali, saying, "Kali, you are unparalleled in dancing according to the rules of Bharata Shastra. There is no one equal to you except Me. From today onwards, with the name Bhadrakali, you shall reside on Our left side in this ThiruvAlangadu." The Lord also grants Kali that those who come to visit this site shall first worship her and then worship Him. He also grants Kali that she shall bestow all the desired boons upon those who worship her. Therefore, from this day onwards, the Lord grants Kali that the first worship and the first festival at this site shall be performed for her, and then the worship for Him. These are the facts and historical notes about the holy site of ThiruvAlangadu. In Periyapuranam, we have already seen in the Thirunavukkarasu Peruman Puranam that Thirunavukkarasu Peruman came to ThiruvAlangadu during his journey north and sang Thiruppathikams. In addition, we have reflected on the history of Pazhanur Neeli, a village associated with ThiruvAlangadu, in the Thirukurippuththonda Nayanar Puranam. Thus, our Ammaiyaar, who arrived here as the Lord commanded, praises the Lord and composes Thiruppathikams. We will continue to reflect on that sacred history. Thiruchitrambalam.

Chapter 18 — Karaikal Ammaiyaar

Thiruchitrambalam. Periyapuranam, Part 503, by Sekkizhar Swamigal, Thirunindra Sarukkam, Karaikal Ammaiyaar Puranam. Our Ammaiyaar, having worshipped the Lord in ThiruvAlangadu, composed two Thiruppathikams. These Thiruppathikams are known as ThiruvAlangattu Mootha Thiruppathikam. Sekkizhar Peruman sings about Ammaiyaar composing these two Mootha Thiruppathikams in two verses. These are the 63rd and 64th verses in Ammaiyaar Puranam. Sekkizhar Peruman sings the 63rd verse as: "When she saw the form of Him dancing, reaching the heavens, in Alangadu, her breasts shrivelled, and she sang the good ancient Thiruppathikam, praising the Lord whose origin is difficult to find, and on that day, she worshipped the dance that the world loves and cherishes." Following this, Sekkizhar Peruman composes the 64th verse as follows: "With great love overflowing, she worshipped the sacred dance of the Lord adorned with fragrant Konrai flowers, and with wonder, she took up the Thiruppathikam starting with 'Etti Ilavam Eegai' and sang, 'The Lord dances while drums beat and ghouls sing.'" This is the 64th verse. These two verses are continuous and form a complete narrative. Ammaiyaar composed Thiruppathikams when she saw ThiruvAlangadu, and after entering it, when she saw the form of the Lord dancing there. In Alangadu, the Lord is present in the form of dancing, reaching the heavens. The Lord's dancing form is everywhere. It is present everywhere. But there are only a few sites where one can openly witness it and benefit. Among these sites, ThiruvAlangadu is the most special. What is seen here is the Lord's form of dancing, raising His foot to the heavens. Out of compassion for those in the upper worlds, to bestow grace upon them, the Lord raised His foot as if to reach the upper worlds, and dances with His foot raised to the heavens. This is the form the Lord shows us in ThiruvAlangadu. In the dance with Kali, the raised foot of the Lord, showing His superiority over her dance, is the Lord's raised foot there. This is the history of the site. "Dancing with Kali, dancing on the golden mountain, dancing with the ghouls, dancing on the earth" is the ninth verse from Thirumooladeva Nayanar's Thirumandiram, Ninth Thanthiram, 13th section, under the division "Porpathi Koothu." Thus, when Ammaiyaar saw the Lord's form dancing, reaching the heavens, she praised the Lord whose origin is difficult to find, saying "Kongai Thirangi," and composed the good ancient Thiruppathikam. The Lord stands beyond words and mind. Therefore, when Sekkizhar Peruman sings here, "the Lord whose origin is difficult to find," it refers to Lord Shiva, who is difficult to perceive through the knowledge of the soul (pasugnanam) and the bonds (pasagnanam), but can be perceived through Shivagnanam (divine knowledge). Therefore, Ammaiyaar was one who saw Him through Shivagnanam. Thus, when she saw the Lord's divine form through Shivagnanam, Ammaiyaar composed the ThiruvAlangattu Mootha Thiruppathikam, which begins with "Kongai Thirangi." Sekkizhar Peruman refers to these Thiruppathikams composed by Ammaiyaar as "Mootha Pathikams" (ancient hymns). It is a Saivite tradition for Ammaiyaar's Thiruppathikams to be referred to as Mootha Pathikams. This is because, among all the compositions structured as Pathikams, Ammaiyaar's Thiruppathikams are the oldest in terms of time. Therefore, the Pathikams composed by Ammaiyaar are called Mootha Thiruppathikams. It is our Saivite tradition to refer to these two Thiruppathikams, now composed by Ammaiyaar, as ThiruvAlangattu Mootha Thiruppathikam One and ThiruvAlangattu Mootha Thiruppathikam Two. Among these two Thiruppathikams, the one beginning with "Kongai Thirangi" is placed as the first Thiruppathikam of ThiruvAlangattu Mootha Thiruppathikam. Even in Thiruvasagam, there is a Thiruppathikam called "Koyil Mootha Pathikam." In Chidambaram, which is called Koyil, two Pathikams were sung first, and because this Pathikam was sung first among those two, it is named "Koyil Mootha Pathikam" in Thiruvasagam. Similarly, here, Ammaiyaar's Pathikams are called Mootha Thiruppathikams. Sekkizhar Peruman refers to this Thiruppathikam sung by Ammaiyaar as a "good ancient Thiruppathikam." Thus, this Mootha Thiruppathikam sung by Ammaiyaar is compiled in the 11th Thirumurai. Generally, all the compositions by Ammaiyaar are compiled in the 11th Thirumurai. Ammaiyaar composed a total of four works. Among them, "Thiru Arputha Thiruvanthathi" and "Thiru Irattai Manimalai" are compositions she sang when she obtained the form of a ghoul in the city of Pandya country, as we saw there. Among the four compositions by Ammaiyaar, the two ThiruvAlangattu Mootha Thiruppathikams are those now composed by Ammaiyaar. Among them, "Kongai Thirangi" is compiled as the first Thiruppathikam, and the Pathikam beginning with "Etti Ilavam" is compiled as the second Thiruppathikam. Here, as mentioned by Sekkizhar Peruman, the Mootha Thiruppathikam beginning with "Kongai Thirangi," now sung by Ammaiyaar, is set to the tune of Nattapadai. "With shrivelled breasts, veins standing out, deep-set eyes, white teeth, a swollen belly, red lips, long protruding teeth, and long, high-heeled legs, a female ghoul, shrieking and drying up in the forest, with matted locks spread in eight directions, our Appan, whose body is cool, dances in the fire. His abode is ThiruvAlangadu." This is the first verse. Thus, Ammaiyaar sings the tenth concluding verse as: "The one without adornment, when the ghouls gather, striking each other, singing in a discordant manner, and the Lord dances, the Karaikal ghoul, who is like a tender sprout, sang these ten beautiful Tamil verses about the Lord of ThiruvAlangadu, who is our Appan, and those who master them will attain Shivagati and experience bliss." With this tenth verse, Ammaiyaar concludes this Thiruppathikam. According to the divine command received in Thirukailai, Ammaiyaar reached ThiruvAlangadu by walking on her head, to witness the sacred dance and sing at His feet. She worshipped that site, which was a great forest filled with banyan trees. There, she saw many ghouls singing, dancing, and playing musical instruments with joy. Thus, the Lord showed His sacred dance, where He raised His foot to the heavens, to Ammaiyaar, in the presence of all these ghouls. The place where this was seen is ThiruvAlangadu, and Ammaiyaar composed this Thiruppathikam, praising the site. It is characteristic of Ammaiyaar's Pathikams to praise the site by focusing on the sacred dance performed by the Lord. Worshipping and praising a site is one of the methods of worship. Sekkizhar Peruman also instructs us on this idea, saying, "When seeing the form of Him dancing in Alangadu, sing and praise the dance." Sekkizhar Peruman then continues to sing about the second Mootha Thiruppathikam composed by Ammaiyaar. Ammaiyaar, who had worshipped the sacred dance of Lord Shiva, adorned with fragrant Konrai flower garlands, with ever-increasing love and overflowing desire, then composed another Thiruppathikam, consisting of complete verses, starting with "Etti Ilavam Eegai" and concluding with "The Lord dances while drums beat and ghouls sing." In this verse, Sekkizhar Peruman refers to the Lord as "Mattavizh Konraiyinar" (one adorned with fragrant Konrai). Konrai is the Lord's sacred garland. It is the form of Pranava. Similarly, the sacred dance performed by the Lord is also the form of Pranava. Therefore, by singing "Mattavizh Konraiyinardam Thirukkootthu" (the sacred dance of the Lord adorned with Konrai flowers), Sekkizhar Peruman implicitly conveys that it is the sacred dance of Lord Shiva. Ammaiyaar had a great desire to witness this sacred dance.

She had a great fondness for it. As her desire to worship this dance grew and overflowed, that love became immense, transforming into wonder. In that state of mind, considering the great blessing she received by worshipping the Lord's sacred dance, Ammaiyaar composed the second Thiruppathikam. Through her description in this Pathikam, where she portrays the Lord Shiva, the beautiful one, dancing while all the ghouls, including herself, beat drums and sing, we understand Ammaiyaar's state of mind. "Etti Ilavam Eegai" is the beginning of this second ThiruvAlangattu Mootha Thiruppathikam. This second Thiruppathikam is set to the tune of Indalappann. "In the forest where Etti, Ilavam, Eegai, Surai, Karai creep everywhere, surrounded by the cremation ground, with Kalli trees, where intestines are caught, and scattered corpses lie, the ghouls with drum-like eyes beat drums, and the beautiful Lord dances while ghouls sing." This is the first verse in this Thiruppathikam. Ammaiyaar continues to sing, and in the 11th concluding verse, she composes as follows: "By the grace of the Lord who has the cool moon on His matted locks, who dances the swirling sacred dance, and who has a serpent tied around His waist, the Karaikal ghoul, with fiery fangs, sang these ten verses, and by singing and dancing, sins are destroyed." With this concluding verse, Ammaiyaar completes this Thiruppathikam. Ammaiyaar composes that in ThiruvAlangadu, surrounded by ghouls, the Lord dances in rhythm, with music and instruments playing. Here, the Lord shows this sacred dance to Ammaiyaar, and Ammaiyaar sings about the state she witnessed, so that the people of the world may know it as it is. The Lord is the first cause, the cause of dissolution. Ammaiyaar is in the form of a ghoul, one of the Lord's sacred hosts. Therefore, Ammaiyaar sees the Lord dancing, surrounded by ghouls. The place where the Lord dances is the cremation ground. There are trees like Vagai, Kalli, Eegai, etc. Among the ghouls living there are mothers and children. Jackals also live there. Owls and other birds sing there. The red fire lit for the rituals of the deceased serves as the lamp there. The ghouls gather, run, dance, and sing with joy. They sing the seven notes of music. They play many musical instruments. Thus, in the hot cremation ground, our Appan, with a cool body, dances with grace. That place is ThiruvAlangadu. This is the essence of this Thiruppathikam. Sekkizhar Peruman then composes the next verse. "Sekkizhar Peruman composes the next verse, the 65th verse, saying, 'How can one describe the immense glory of Ammaiyaar, who was graced by the Lord with matted locks holding the overflowing Ganga, who called her with sweet words, "Ammai," and who always remains at the feet of His sacred raised foot in His glorious dance?'" Lord Shiva is the one who holds the overflowing Ganga in His matted locks. He held that great flood like a small dewdrop in His matted locks and contained it. Such a Lord Shiva called our Ammaiyaar, Karaikal Ammaiyaar, with His sweet and gentle words, "Ammaiye." Our Ammaiyaar, of such great glory, always remains at the feet of the Lord when He performs His sacred dance. The Lord's foot is the raised sacred foot. The Lord's foot is the one that lifts souls from the mire of anava (ego) and places them at His feet, bestowing bliss. Thirunavukkarasu Peruman sings in Thevaram about this as "Eduttha Porpadham" (the raised golden foot). The raised foot is different from the planted foot. According to the Unmai Vilakkam verse, "Seek Mukti at the raised lotus feet," the raised foot is the foot that bestows grace. Therefore, Sekkizhar Peruman refers to it here as "Eduttharulum Sevadi" (the raised sacred foot that bestows grace). Here, the raised foot of the Lord is the foot that granted Ammaiyaar that irreversible state, that liberation. Our Ammaiyaar always remains at that sacred foot.

This state is the state that is equally attained by everyone who reaches the Lord's feet. However, this state attained by Ammaiyaar is special because she specifically requested, "I wish to be at Your feet when You dance." Thus, Ammaiyaar is one who attained great glory. She is worthy of the greatness of having received exactly what she asked for. Who can describe the greatness of Ammaiyaar in this way? It is beyond our capacity. The specialness of Ammaiyaar, that great specialness, is immeasurable, and I cannot describe it. Not only that, no one can describe it. Ammaiyaar's specialness is immeasurable. Ammaiyaar not only remains at the Lord's feet when He dances but also has the special privilege of singing. Sekkizhar Peruman says that no one can describe the great specialness of such an Ammaiyaar. Sekkizhar Peruman then composes the concluding verse, the 66th verse. "When the Lord, who has no beginning or end, performs His dance of grace, I praise the radiant lotus feet of Ammaiyaar, who sings before Him. Now I shall begin to praise the sacred service performed by Appoodhi Adigal, the great sage, in Thingoor, surrounded by cool water-filled fields." Thus, Sekkizhar Peruman concludes the Puranam of Ammaiyaar. The Lord's sacred dance is a dance of grace without beginning or end. Sekkizhar Peruman says in this verse, "When the Lord performs that dance of grace, I praise the radiant lotus-like feet of Ammaiyaar, who sings melodious songs at His feet." Sekkizhar Peruman concludes by emphasizing Ammaiyaar singing at the Lord's feet here. This is because this is the boon Ammaiyaar asked for and received. This boon encompasses all other boons. It is in this manner of singing that all other historical narratives, all other histories of Ammaiyaar, come to mind. Therefore, Sekkizhar Peruman sings and concludes this entire history by focusing on this. Sekkizhar Peruman sings, "Ammaiyaar, who sings before Him." Music that has the Lord as its inner meaning is the music that can grant us salvation. All other music, all other songs, are empty music that are limited to sensory pleasure. But a song that has the Lord as its inner meaning, that music, will bring us salvation. Therefore, Sekkizhar Peruman, who concludes this sacred Puranam by using the name "Ammai" with which the Lord called her, praises Ammaiyaar's lotus feet, as she forever sings before the Lord. Thus, Sekkizhar Peruman, praising and concluding the sacred Puranam of our Ammaiyaar, praises Ammaiyaar's feet and then states that he will now begin to narrate the sacred service performed by Appoodhi Adigal, the great sage, who lived in Thingoor. Thus, he sets the stage for the upcoming Puranam of Appoodhi Adigal Nayanar. We too, having happily concluded Ammaiyaar Puranam, will now continue with Appoodhi Adigal Nayanar Puranam, with the support of Ammaiyaar's feet. At this point, Sivakavimani C.K.S. Aiya has provided detailed commentaries on Ammaiyaar's ThiruvAlangattu Mootha Thiruppathikam One, Two, Thiru Irattai Manimalai, and Thiruvanthathi. Devotees can read and learn from them. With this information, we will continue to reflect on Appoodhi Adigal Nayanar Puranam. Praise, praise to the feet of Karaikal Ammaiyaar. Praise, praise to the feet of Sundaramoorthy Swamigal. Praise, praise to the feet of Nambiyandar Nambigal. Praise, praise to the feet of Sekkizhar Peruman. Praise, praise to the feet of Sivakavimani Aiya, who provided the great commentary on Periyapuranam. We will continue to reflect. Thiruchitrambalam.