Chapter 01 — Isaignani Ammaiyar Nayanar

Thiruchitrambalam. Periyapuranam, Part 1021, composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. The chapter of Manniyasir, the Puranam of Isaignani Ammaiyar. In the Periyapuranam composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman, following the Thiruppuranam of Sadaiya Nayanar, the Puranam of Isaignani Ammaiyar is arranged as the 71st Thiruppuranam in the Periyapuranam series. Isaignani Ammaiyar is the sacred mother of our Lord Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, who composed the Thiruthondathogai Thiruppathigam. This section describes the history and character of Isaignani Ammaiyar. The Puranam of Isaignani Ammaiyar is the sixth Puranam within the 12th chapter, Manniyasir Sarukkam. Isaignani means "Isai" (music) is fame. She is a Gnani (wise one) who possesses fame that is spoken of. Therefore, the sacred name of Ammaiyar is Gnani, meaning she is one whose fame is proclaimed. Thus, she is revered with the sacred name Isaignani Ammaiyar. First, in the 11th verse of Thiruthondathogai, composed by our Lord Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, the author of the collection, he states, "Ennavanam Aranadiye adaindhitta Sadaiyan Isaignani Kadhalan Thirunavalurkon." The meaning of this is that Nambi Arurar, the lord of Thirunavalur, is the son of Isaignani Ammaiyar. How this continues in the Thiruthondathogai Thiruppathigam is that he concludes the Thiruthondathogai Thiruppathigam by saying, "Ennavanam Aranadiye adaindhitta Sadaiyan Isaignani Kadhalan Thirunavalurkon Annavanam Aruran adimai kettu uvappar Aruril Ammaanukku anbaravare." The part "Annavanam Aruran adimai kettu uvappar Aruril Ammaanukku anbaravare" that appears here is explained as the concluding part of this chapter, following the Puranam of Isaignani Ammaiyar. Therefore, the part of Thiruthondathogai that speaks of Isaignani Ammaiyar is "Thirunavalurkon, the sacred son of Isaignani Ammaiyar." Now, in the Thiruthondar Thiruvandhadhi, a type of work, Nambiandar Nambigal Peruman praises Isaignani Ammaiyar in the 85th verse. "Payandhal karuvudai sengan vellai polla neel panaikkai gayandhan ukaitha narkalaiyai endrum kapalam kaikondu ayandhan pugumaana Arur punitha Aran thiruthaal nayandhal thanathu ullathu endrum uraippathu Gnaniyaye." Isaignani Ammaiyar is the one who gave us Sundaramoorthy Swamigal. Our Lord Sundaramoorthy Swamigal is like a bull that rode an elephant to Thirukkailai. That elephant had the qualities of being pregnant, having red eyes, white color, and long, palm-like trunks. Sundaramoorthy Swamigal is like the bull that rode such an elephant to Thirukkailai. Nambi Arurar is like a bull. Due to his qualities of youth, valor, and pride, Sundaramoorthy Swamigal is likened to a bull. The divine Sekkizhar Peruman refers to him as a bull. Isaignani Ammaiyar is the one who gave birth to such a Sundaramoorthy Swamigal. Lord Shiva, who holds the skull of Brahma in his hand and accepts alms, is the sacred Lord enshrined in Thiruvarur. She is one who lovingly holds the sacred feet of that Lord in her heart. All of them always praise Isaignani Pirattiyar. Isaignani Ammaiyar is the one who gave us our Acharya Peruman, Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, one of the foremost Acharyas of Saivism, Nambi Arurar Peruman. Because of this, Nambi Arurar Peruman composed the Thiruthondathogai Thiruppathigam, and as a result, the sacred histories of all the devotees were made known to the Saivite people to be understood and recited daily. Moreover, Isaignani Ammaiyar is one who always lovingly holds the sacred feet of Lord Shiva in her heart. The Thiruvarur inscription states that Isaignani Ammaiyar was born in Thiruvarur, also known as Kamalapuram, in the Sivagautama Gotra, in the lineage of Gnanashivacharyar. Therefore, the sacred place of Isaignani Ammaiyar is Thiruvarur.

It is for this reason that her sacred son, Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, was named Aruran, after the Lord of Thiruvarur, as we see. We see this in Sundaramoorthy Swamigal's Thevara Thiruvakku, "Aruran per mudivaittha." We see that the original name at Thiruvarur Thiru Moolathanam is Aruran. Therefore, we see in Sundaramoorthy Swamigal the quality that his sacred mother, Isaignani Ammaiyar of Thiruvarur, worshipped the sacred feet of the Lord of Arur residing in that sacred place, and was devoted to the Lord of Arur. We see this from his own sacred words. Similarly, we see that the author of Periyapuranam, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman, considered Thirunageswaram in Chola Nadu, the sacred place of his mother, as his own spiritual abode. Thus, the type of work praises Isaignani Ammaiyar. Now, in the extensive work, Periyapuranam, composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman, the Puranam of Isaignani Ammaiyar is explained to us by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman with one sacred verse. The 4228th sacred verse in Periyapuranam, the concluding verse in the Manniya Seer Sarukkam, says, "Ozhiya perumai Sadaiyanar urimai selva thirumanaiyar azhiya purangal eydhu azhiththar aanda Nambi thannai payandhar ezhiya kulathin Isaignani Pirattiyarai en siru punmozhiyal pugazha mudiyumo? Mudiyathu evarkkum mudiyathal." Sadaiya Nayanar is one of immeasurable greatness. Isaignani Ammaiyar is the wealthy and sacred wife of Sadaiya Nayanar. Lord Shiva is the one who destroyed the three cities of indestructible strength. Nambi Arurar is the one whom Lord Shiva ruled. Isaignani Ammaiyar is the one who gave birth to Nambi Arurar. She is like a precious gem born in the exalted lineage of Shivavediyar, the Adisaiva clan. The lineage in which she was born is the Shivavediyar lineage. The divine Sekkizhar Peruman praises the Shivavediyar clan as an exalted lineage. Other Brahmin lineages are subject to creation and destruction by Brahma. The Adisaiva lineage is not a creation of Brahma, but a creation of Shiva, originating from the five sacred faces of Lord Shiva, initiated, and through generations, their devotion increased, and they followed the Shivagama rules, considering the worship of Lord Shiva as their hereditary right. Therefore, it became an exalted lineage. We see this in the Thiruvarur Thevaram composed by Sundaramoorthy Swamigal. He says, "Ezhiya kulathil piranthom ummai ikazhadhu ethuvom." We saw that they are those who worship Lord Shiva due to their ever-increasing devotion, as "eppodhum iniya piran in arulal athikarithu." In Periyapuranam, in the Puranam of "Muppodhum Thirumeni Theendhuvar," we saw that they are those who serve the Lord who is half-female, generation after generation, as "Mathorubaganarukku vazhi vazhi adimai seyyum vedhiyar kulam" in the Puranam of Thaduthadkondar. We saw that their lineage is pure, as "Masila marabil vandha vallal." She was born in such a sacred lineage, became the sacred wife of Sadaiya Nayanar, and gave us our Acharya Peruman, Sundaramoorthy Swamigal. She gave us Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, who gave us the Thiruthondathogai, which is the essence of Southern Tamil. Can my small words praise the glory of such a great Isaignani Ammaiyar? No, it cannot. It is not possible for me, nor for anyone else, says the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. Thus, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman shows us the sacred Puranam of Isaignani Ammaiyar and concludes this Puranam. Praise, praise to the sacred feet of our Lord Sadaiya Nayanar. Praise, praise to the sacred feet of our Lady Isaignani Ammaiyar. Praise, praise to the sacred feet of our Lord Sundaramoorthy Swamigal. Praise, praise to the sacred feet of Nambiandar Nambigal Peruman. Praise, praise to the golden sacred feet of the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. Praise, praise to the sacred feet of the commentator Sivakavimani Ayya. Next, we will contemplate the praise of Sundaramoorthy Nayanar. Thiruchitrambalam.

Chapter 02 — Isaignani Ammaiyar Nayanar

Thiruchitrambalam. Periyapuranam, composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. Part 1022. Continuation of Manniyasir Sarukkam. We have been contemplating the Manniyasir Sarukkam in the Periyapuranam composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. The divine Sekkizhar Peruman composed the Periyapuranam by arranging 11 chapters for the 11 sacred verses of Thiruthondathogai composed by our Lord Sundaramoorthy Swamigal. In addition to this, he composed the first Thirumalai Sarukkam and the 13th Vellana Sarukkam, thereby narrating the sacred history of Sundaramoorthy Swamigal. This is known to us. In that context, we contemplated the sacred Puranams of the seven Nayanmars praised in the Manniyasir Sarukkam. Now, the Thiruthondathogai Thiruppathigam belonging to this chapter, the 11th sacred verse in it. The concluding lines in it are "Annavanam Aruran adimai kettu uvappar Aruril Ammaanukku anbar avare." In all the previous chapters, we have seen that in the 10 Thiruppathigams preceding this in Thiruthondathogai, Sundaramoorthy Swamigal sang "Aruran Aruril Ammaanukku aale" as the concluding line. Correspondingly, Nambiandar Nambigal Peruman included the praise of Sundaramoorthy Nayanar for that Thiruppathigam in Thiruthondar Thiruvandhadhi. And correspondingly, we have been observing the structure where the divine Sekkizhar Peruman includes the praise of Sundaramoorthy Nayanar at the end of each chapter in the extensive work, Periyapuranam. Here, the 11th sacred verse is the concluding verse. Therefore, as the fruit of the pathigam, our Lord Sundaramoorthy Swamigal blesses us. He has said, "Annavanam Aruran adimai kettu uvappar Aruril Ammaanukku anbar avare." Its meaning is that those who rejoice upon hearing the devotion of Aruran, who possesses such a nature, will become devotees of Ammaan in Thiruvarur. This is its meaning. "Annavan" means "that one" as mentioned before. "Such a nature" refers to the nature of Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, who declared himself a devotee of all the Thiruthondars, starting with "Thillaivazh Andhanartham adiyarkkum adiyen" and then "Thiruneelakanda Paananarkku adiyen." Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, who is a devotee of such a multitude of devotees and 60 individual devotees, says, "I, who possess such a nature, who am the son of Sadaiyanar and Isaignaniyar, the quality of serving them, the method of worship with mind, word, and body, this Thiruthondathogai Thiruppathigam which describes this devotion." Those who sing, understand, and recite this Thiruppathigam, and similarly become devoted to the devotees, will attain the quality of being beloved by Lord Shiva and will qualify for liberation, which is Moksha. The conclusion of the Sivagnana scriptures, which states that the mind directed towards the 63 Nayanmars, the devotees of Shiva (including Sundaramoorthy Swamigal), and the nine collective devotees, will generate love for Shiva, and that itself will be the means to liberation, is stated here. Thus, we have contemplated and worshipped the meaning of the Thiruthondathogai Thiruppathigam, which is a collection, through the commentary of Sivakavimani Ayya, starting from the Puranam of Thaduthadkondar until now. Now, the 86th sacred verse in the Thiruthondar Thiruvandhadhi, a type of work, composed by Nambiandar Nambigal Peruman, is the sacred verse for this type of work. "Gnana Arurarai Serarai allathu naam ariyom. Manava aakkaiyodum pukku avarai valaroli poon vanavaralum maruvarka ariya vadakailaik kon avan koyil perunthavathor thangal koottathile." Thirukkailai mountain is a mountain difficult for even the Devas to reach. It is the sacred mountain where the temple of Lord Shiva, the supreme leader, is located. No one has ever entered the assembly of devotees in that temple of Lord Shiva with a human body. Except for Gnana Thirunambi Arurar, Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, and Cheraman Perumal Nayanar, no one else has entered with a human body. Gnana Arurar is Nambi Arurar, Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, who possesses wisdom. The wisdom mentioned here is Sivagnanam. It signifies the possession of a life of Sivagnanam. Cherar refers to Cheraman Perumal Nayanar. Kailai Thirukkoottam is the assembly of Shiva Ganas. The history of these two great personalities, Nambi Arurar and Cheraman Perumal Nayanar, going to Thirukkailai with their human bodies, Sundaramoorthy Swamigal on an elephant and Cheraman Perumal Nayanar on a horse respectively, and sitting there as Gananathars in the assembly of devotees, will be extensively narrated in the upcoming 13th chapter, Vellana Sarukkam. This sacred verse has been the support, basis, and प्रमाण (proof) for the divine Sekkizhar Peruman to compose such a chapter called Vellana Sarukkam. Therefore, in each chapter, we see that at the end, the collection work is arranged, then the type of work is arranged accordingly, and then the praise of Sundaramoorthy Nayanar is arranged in the extensive work, Periyapuranam, composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. But here, the 11th concluding part of the Thiruthondathogai Thiruppathigam, and correspondingly, the type of work narrates the sacred history of Cheraman Perumal Nayanar reaching Thirukkailai with Sundaramoorthy Swamigal. Therefore, the extensive work part for this is separately composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman as Vellana Sarukkam. So, the extensive work part for this section is the Vellana Sarukkam. That is the 13th chapter. Thus, the 86th sacred verse of Thiruthondar Thiruvandhadhi is structured. Following this, there are three sacred verses in Thiruthondar Thiruvandhadhi: 87th, 88th, and 89th. Among them, the 87th sacred verse is titled "Thiruthondathogai Thani Adiyargalum Thogai Adiyargalum." That sacred verse is as follows: "Koottam onpanodu arupathu moonru thani peyara eettum perunthavathor ezhupathu irandam vinaiyai vaattum thava Thiruthondathogai pathinonrin vagaippattum thigazh Thirunavalur aali panithanane." In this sacred verse, Nambiandar Nambigal has classified and shown how many individual devotees and collective devotees are there in Thiruthondathogai. The types of devotees in the sacred assembly are nine. The collective devotees are nine. Along with them, 63 individual devotees, thus, there are 72 devotees who perform great penance. The Thiruthondathogai is a Thiruthondathogai that bestows penance that removes karma. In it, our Lord Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, the ruler of Thirunavalur, has arranged 11 sacred verses. The collective devotees praised are nine groups. These are the seven types praised in the verse starting with "Thillaivazh Andhanargal Poyyadimai illatha Pulavar Patharayi Panivargal," making a total of nine. Now, 63 individual devotees are praised by name. From Thiruneelakanda Kuyavanar to Thiruneelakanda Yazhpaana Nayanar, there are 60 Nayanmars praised individually by Sundaramoorthy Swamigal as "Adiyen." Along with them, Sadaiya Nayanar, the sacred father of Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, is mentioned as "Aranadiye adaindhitta Sadaiyan." As "Isaignani Kadhalan" is mentioned, Isaignani Ammaiyar is the sacred mother of Sundaramoorthy Swamigal. Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, as "Thirunavalur Kon" who is their beloved, and "Annavanakiya Aruran," shows himself as a devotee to all of them. Thus, including Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, there are 63 individual devotees.

These 63 individual devotees are those who have accumulated great penance. Penance is Shiva Puja. Therefore, the benefit of reciting the Thiruthondathogai Thiruppathigam is that it leads us on the path of penance that eradicates karma. The path of penance is the path of Shiva. The path of Shiva is Shiva Puja. Its benefit is liberation, as stated here. Now, the 88th sacred verse in Thiruthondar Thiruvandhadhi is a sacred verse that summarizes the initial references of the Thiruthondathogai sacred verses. The sacred verse is: "Panitha natthondathogai muthal thillai ilai malindha ani thigazh mummai thirunindra vampara vaar kondathor inai thigazh poyyadimai karai kandan kadal soozhndha pin mani thigazh sol pathar manniya seer marai navanode." Therefore, for those who regularly recite the Thiruthondathogai Thiruppathigam, the order of the 11 sacred verses of Thiruthondathogai should come to mind without confusion. To assist this, Nambiandar Nambigal, out of compassion, strung together the first word references of the 11 sacred verses of Thiruthondathogai into a poem. Similarly, we see this method being used in Thevara schools for other pathigams. That is, if one wants to memorize a Thiruppathigam, they would compile all the first words of the verses in that Thiruppathigam into a single poem and memorize it. Thus, the sequence would remain unbroken. This is a tradition commonly seen in Indian languages, especially prominent in Sanskrit and Tamil. As mentioned before, the first word references of the Thiruthondathogai Thiruppathigam verses, which eradicate karma and bestow penance, composed by our Lord Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, the ruler of Thirunavalur, are "Thillai ilai malindha mummai thirunindra vampara vaar konda poyyadimai karai kandan kadal soozhndha pathar manniya seer," which are 11 terms. This is the meaning of this sacred verse. Now, the concluding sacred verse, the 89th verse, composed by Nambiandar Nambigal Peruman in the Thiruthondar Thiruvandhadhi, a type of work. It describes the benefits of studying this type of work, Thiruthondar Thiruvandhadhi. That sacred verse is: "Odum panchendriyam oduki ennul vinaigal vadidum vannam nindru etthavam seythanan vanin ullor soodidum seer thirupathatha thondathogaiyil ulla sedar tham selva perum pugazh andhadhi seppidave." The Devas in the celestial world wear on their heads the glorious sacred feet of the devotees praised in Thiruthondathogai. This Thiruvandhadhi, Thiruthondar Thiruvandhadhi, praises their great glories. If I were to recite this, what great penance did I perform to control the five senses that run uncontrolled, to make them cease their running, and to make my inner karmas wither away? I did not perform such a great penance, sings Nambiandar Nambigal Peruman. It is difficult to recite this Thiruvandhadhi, which praises the glories of the Thiruthondars, unless one has performed penance that controls the five senses and eradicates karma. Therefore, this Thiruvandhadhi is a result of penance. I did not perform any such penance. Yet, I received this blessing, didn't I? Thus, Nambiandar Nambigal concludes this Thiruvandhadhi. Here, the concluding word is "seppidave" in "perum pugazh andhadhi seppidave." This Thiruvandhadhi begins with "seppathagu pugazh." Thus, we see the state of completion, circling from beginning to end. Thus, the Thiruthondar Thiruvandhadhi composed by Nambiandar Nambigal Peruman concludes.

Therefore, with this section, the Thiruthondathogai Thiruppathigam composed by our Lord Sundaramoorthy Swamigal also concludes. Thus, the collection work concludes, and the Thiruthondar Thiruvandhadhi, a type of work composed by Nambiandar Nambigal Peruman, also concludes. Along with that, the 12th chapter of Periyapuranam, Mangaiyar Sarukkam, composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman, which describes the sacred lives of the 63 Nayanmars and the characteristics of the nine collective devotees, thus concludes these 12 chapters. Now, the sacred history of our Lord Sundaramoorthy Swamigal and Cheraman Perumal Nayanar reaching Thirukkailai is composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman as the concluding chapter, the 13th chapter, called Vellana Sarukkam. Therefore, we conclude the Mangaiyar Sarukkam and will continue to contemplate the concluding chapter, Vellana Sarukkam. Thiruchitrambalam. Praise, praise to the sacred feet of our great Nayanmars. Praise, praise to the sacred feet of the great collective devotees. Praise, praise to the sacred feet of our Lord Sundaramoorthy Swamigal. Praise, praise to the sacred feet of Nambiandar Nambigal Peruman. Praise, praise to the sacred feet of the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. Praise, praise to the sacred feet of the commentator Sivakavimani Sambandha Saranalaya Swamigal. Thiruchitrambalam.