Chapter 01 — Poosalaar Nayanar

Thiruchitrambalam. Periyapuranam, Part 1010, authored by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. The Manniyasir Sarga, Poosalaar Nayanar Puranam. Following the Pattharai Panivar Sarga in the Periyapuranam authored by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman, the 12th Sarga is the Manniyasir Sarga. We have seen that the 11 verses of Thiruthondathogai, composed by our Lord Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, have been sung by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman as 11 Sargams. In that sequence, the 11th verse of Thiruthondathogai is the concluding verse in this Thirupathigam. It is the verse that begins with "Manniyasir". "Manniyasir maraignaval nindravur poosal varivalaiyaan maanikkum nesanukkum adiyen thennavanai ulagaanda senganaarkku adiyen thiruneelakandaththu paananaarkku adiyen ennavanaam aran adiye adainthitta sadaiyan isaignani kaathalan thirunavalur kon annavanaam aruran adimai kettu uvappar aruril ammanukku anbar aavare" is the 11th concluding verse of Thiruthondathogai. Since it begins with "Manniyasir", the divine Sekkizhar Peruman named this Sarga "Manniyasir Sarga". The sacred histories of the devotees mentioned in this verse are contained in this Sarga. The Puranams of Poosalaar Nayanar, Mangaiyarkkarasi Ammaiyar, Nesa Nayanar, Kochengatchozha Nayanar, Thiruneelakandaththu Paananar Nayanar, along with the Puranams of our Lord Sundaramoorthy Swamigal's father Sadaiya Nayanar and mother Isaignani Ammaiyar Nayanar, are all sung by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman in this Manniyasir Sarga. With this Sarga, all the sacred histories of the Nayanmars conclude, and the 13th concluding Sarga, Vellanaai Sarga, follows. In that Sarga, the sacred history of our Lord Sundaramoorthy Swamigal's return to Thirukailayam is sung in the 13th concluding Sarga. In that sequence, the first Puranam in the 12th Sarga, named Manniyasir Sarga, is Poosalaar Nayanar Puranam. First, our Lord Sundaramoorthy Swamigal composed the compendium "Thiruthondathogai". He sang, "Manniyasir maraignaval nindravur poosal varivalaiyaan maanikkum nesanukkum adiyen". Therefore, the meaning is, "I am a devotee of Poosalaar Nayanar, who was born in Thirunindravur, possessing the speech that recites the Vedas with enduring glory." This is the meaning of the compendium. We can combine it as "Manniyasir Poosal". The enduring glory of Manniyasir Poosalaar Nayanar – what is that glory? Poosalaar Nayanar was instrumental in showing the world that inner worship (Agapooja), which has enduring depth, is superior to external worship (Bahir Pooja). Poosalaar Nayanar possesses that unique and enduring glory. "Navan" means one who possesses speech. Nindravur is the sacred place of Poosalaar Nayanar. It is currently popularly known as Thirunindravur. Poosal is the name of the Nayanar. Thus, the meaning of our Lord Sundaramoorthy Swamigal singing "Manniyasir maraignaval nindravur poosalukku adiyen" in the compendium is explained as such. Now, in the detailed work, Thiruthondar Thiruvandhadhi, Nambiyandar Nambigal Peruman praises Poosalaar Nayanar in the 78th verse. "Padhumannar pothu anna paathathaarkku or koyilaiyaan kadhumena seygavathu endru kolo endru kan thuyilar thadhumanahthe ellithor ninaintharul petrathu enbar pudhumanal thendralula nindravur thanil poosalaiye" is the verse. Lord Shiva has feet like beautiful lotus flowers. We see in many stotras that Lord Shiva's feet are like lotuses. "Poovinukku arungalam pongu thamara" is the sacred saying of Thirunavukkarasu Peruman. Even though there are many flowers, the lotus is given paramount importance in our religious texts. The Lord's feet are referred to as "Paatha Aravindham" (lotus feet) and "Paatha Thamarai" (lotus feet). They are praised as "Kamala Malarpaadham" (lotus flower feet). The Alvars praise them as "Paathaga malangal neekkum paatha kamalangal" (lotus feet that remove sins). The Upanishads and other sacred texts state that the Lord resides in the lotus of the heart. Among the Ashtapushpas (eight sacred flowers), the lotus flower is very important. Our texts further elaborate on the greatness of the lotus. Poosalaar Nayanar was worried, "When will I quickly build a temple for Lord Shiva, whose feet are like such beautiful lotus flowers?" This is praised in the verse as "Padhuma narpothu anna paadham". Without sleep, day and night, he thought of it in his mind, and by that thought alone, he built a temple and received divine grace. Poosalaar Nayanar, who came to Thirunindravur, a sacred place where the gentle breeze blows through new sand dunes, built a temple in his mind for the Lord. When he was worried about how he would build a temple without funds, he thought day and night about building a temple for the Lord, even without sleep, and built it in his mind. Thus, this detailed work speaks of his greatness. Now, in the Periya Puranam, authored by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman, which is an elaborate work, Poosalaar Nayanar Puranam is the 65th sacred history. The divine Sekkizhar Peruman sang the sacred history of Poosalaar Nayanar in 18 verses. Poosalaar Nayanar Puranam is the section that describes the history and character of Poosalaar Nayanar. The first verse is: "Attrinaar puram eriththaarkku aalayam edukka enni ondrum angu udhavaadhaaga unarvinaal edukum thanmai nandru ena manaththinaale nalla aalayam thaan seytha nindra ur poosalaar tham ninaivinai uraikkalutram" This verse, the first verse, is seen to be in the words of the divine Sekkizhar Peruman himself. The divine Sekkizhar Peruman says: Poosalaar Nayanar, who came from Thirunindravur, desired to build a temple for Lord Shiva, who burned the three cities of the enemies. When no funds were available for it, he decided that building a temple in his mind was a good sacred service. With that resolve, he built a beautiful temple in his mind. The divine Sekkizhar Peruman begins this sacred history by saying, "We are narrating the history of Poosalaar, who came from Thirunindravur, and his thoughts." The second and third verses are: "Ulaginil ozhukkam endru uyar perum thondai naattu nalamigu sirappin mikka naanmarai vilangu moothur kula muthal seelam endrum kuraivilaa maraiyor kolgai nilaviya selva malki nigazh thirunindra uram. Arumarai marabu vaazha appathi vandhu sinthai tharum unarvaana ellam thambiraan kazhanmel saara varuneri maaraa anbu valarnthu ezha valarnthu vaaimai porul peru veda neethi kalai unar polivin mikkaar." In this world, the land of Thondai Nadu is a great country where good conduct always thrives. "Thondai nannadu saandror udaiththu" (Thondai Nadu is rich in scholars) is a proverb. We can recall here how the divine Sekkizhar Peruman summarized all the good qualities of Thondai Nadu in the 1124th verse, "The land of Thondai where pure-minded people live, who do not even dream of evil." This Puranam is where the greatness of this glorious Thondai Nadu is extensively described in this Periya Puranam. Therefore, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman summarizes and describes the greatness of Thondai Nadu here. In that Thondai Nadu, there is a good ancient town, a very old town. It is an ancient town where the four Vedas – Rig, Yajur, Sama, and Atharva – shine with great glory. Moreover, it is the town where Poosalaar Nayanar, the Nayanar of this Puranam, was born. "Kula muthal seelam" – the primary conduct of the lineage, where Brahmins, whose principles are never lacking, thrive in wealth. That is the town of Thirunindravur. "Kolgai nilaviya selvam" – wealth established by principles. "Kolgai" refers to a goal concerning the superiority of life. "Nilavuthal" refers to the unwavering effort to adhere to that goal. This is the wealth possessed by the Brahmins living in this town. Furthermore, the goal concerning the superiority of life and the unwavering effort to adhere to that goal are also seen in the history of this Nayanar. The divine Sekkizhar Peruman subtly indicates this here. Such a town is Thirunindravur. It is the town where the wealth of Brahmins, whose primary conduct of lineage is never lacking, thrives in their principles. Therefore, it is Thirunindravur. He was born in that town so that such a rare Vedic tradition might flourish. All the feelings that arose in his mind were directed towards the feet of Lord Shiva, and he performed sacred service. His unwavering love grew and flourished towards the feet of Lord Shiva, and he himself grew, excelling in the knowledge of Vedic justice and arts, which are conducive to attaining the true meaning. Therefore, the Nayanar's lineage is that of a Vedic scholar. The Nayanar was born with love for Shiva and grew more and more in it. "Poosal" means love. Therefore, "Poosalaar" refers to one who was born with love for Lord Shiva and flourished as that love grew more and more. Thus, we see that "Poosalaar" is a descriptive name for this Nayanar. Let us continue to reflect. Thiruchitrambalam.

Chapter 02 — Poosalaar Nayanar

Thiruchitrambalam. Periyapuranam, Part 1011, authored by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. Manniyasir Sarga, Poosalaar Nayanar Puranam. Fourth verse. "Aduppathu sivan paal anbarkkaam pani seythal endre koduppathu evvagaiyum thedi avar kolak koduththu gangai maduppathi veni aiyar magizhndhu uraivatharkor koyil eduppathu manathuk kondaar irunidhi inmai ennaar." Poosalaar Nayanar resolved that performing services for Lord Shiva and His devotees was the most appropriate thing to do. Poosalaar Nayanar lived by the principle that finding wealth by any means to give to Lord Shiva's devotees, and making them happy by giving it, was the true sacred service. Poosalaar Nayanar conceived in his mind the idea of building a temple for the Lord, who has a matted lock filled with the Ganges, to reside in joy. However, he resolved to build a temple for the Lord without even considering that he did not have sufficient wealth to do so. Fifth verse. "Manaththinaal karuthi engum maanidhi varundhith thedi enaiththum or porutperu indri en seyghen endru naivaar ninaippinaal edukka nerndhu nigazhvuru nidhiyellam thinaiththunai muthalaath thedi sinthaiyaal thirattik kondaar." He thought in his mind of all the places where wealth could be found and searched everywhere, but he grieved that he could not find that great wealth, not even a small amount. He lamented, "What shall I do now?" Thus, grieving, he resolved to build the temple in his mind. If those without wealth try to perform sacred service, the world will not support it. Moreover, it will only cause distress; this is the natural way of the world. We see with our own eyes that even those with wealth do not willingly come forward to contribute to Shiva's sacred service. In that case, if those without wealth start a sacred service, the world will not support it and will only cause distress; this is natural. Therefore, Poosalaar Nayanar realized that inner wealth is the root. He gathered all the wealth required to build a temple in his mind. Having gathered all the wealth in his mind, he then built the temple in his mind. Sixth and seventh verses. "Saadhanaththodu thachchar thammaiyum manaththaal thedi naadhanukku aalayam sey nalam peru nannaal konde aadhariththu aagamaththaal adinilai paariththu anbaal kaathalil kankul podhum kanpadaathu edukkaluttraar adi muthal upaanam aadhi aagiya padaigal ellam vadivurum thozhil kan muttra manaththinaal vaguththu maan mudivuru sigaram thaanum munniya muzhaththil kondu nedithu naal kooda koyil nirambidum ninaiyall seythaar." He sought and gathered in his mind all the materials needed to build the temple, such as stone, earth, lime, and wood. Additionally, he sought and brought in his mind the carpenters, workers, and sculptors. He fixed an auspicious day that would bring good fortune and, on that day, at that auspicious moment, he began the temple construction as the first day of the work. He began to build the temple according to the rules of the Sivagamas regarding temple architecture and mathematics. On that auspicious day and at that auspicious time, he laid the foundation. He did all this according to the Sivagama rules. Even during the night, when all living beings sleep, he did not sleep but continued to perform the temple work in his mind. Due to the fullness of his love and intense desire, he began to build the temple without sleeping even at night. From the foundation to the base of the gopuram (upaanam), he constructed all the layers and even created the sculptural decorations in his mind.

He constructed in his mind all parts of a temple, from the base to the pinnacle of the vimana, including the Uppapeedam, Adishtanam, Kumbapanjaram, Padavargam, Prastharam, Kalatthi, Sigaram, and Dhupi. The rules for sizing the vimana and sigaram according to the respective main deities of the temple are mentioned in the Sivagamas. We can also find this in the Shilpa Shastras based on the Sivagamas. He had all these constructed according to the prescribed measurements mentioned in temple sculpture. Terms like Devangulam and Manangulam are mentioned in Shilpa Shastra. He had all these built in his mind. Eighth verse. "Thoopiyum nattu mikka sudhaiyum nalvinaiyum seythu koovalum amaiththu maadu koyil suzh madhilum pokki vaaviyum thottu matrum venduva vaguththu mannum thaabaram sivanukku erpa vidhiththa naal saaru naalil." He also erected the stupi. The stupi is the sharp pinnacle at the top of the vimana. He erected it. After erecting the stupi, he applied lime plaster. He applied lime plaster to the vimana, gopuram, etc., and also created sculptural decorations on them. He fashioned and sculpted images of Ashtagajas (eight elephants), Ashtanagas (eight serpents), Rishabham (bull), and others. He constructed a sacred well (theertha kinathru) and a bathing well (thirumanjana kinathru). This is the well for the Lord's sacred bathing water inside the temple. Additionally, he constructed a pond (vaavi) outside the temple. This is a pond or sacred tank outside the temple for the use of devotees. He properly constructed the inner circumambulatory path (utrra prakaram) and the outer circumambulatory path (velisutru prakaram) in the temple. He also built surrounding shrines, a sacred garden (thirunandhavanam), and other mandapams. Having completed the temple in this manner, he then fixed an auspicious day for the Kumbabhishekam, the Sivagama ritual of consecration, to establish Lord Shiva in His sacred form, the Sivalingam. At that time, by the grace of Lord Shiva, a miraculous divine event occurred. Ninth verse. "Kaadavar komaan kachchi kattrali eduththu muttra maadalaam sivanukkaaga perunjelvam vaguththal seyvaan naada maalarriyaathaarai thaabikkum annaal munnaal edalar kondrai vendhar iravidai kanavil eythi." At the same time, the Pallava king, Kaadavar Peruman, who was then the ruler, known as Rajasimha Pallava, was building a stone temple for the Lord in Kanchipuram. That is the Kailasanathar Temple in Kanchipuram today. It was built with structures resembling the Sri Kailasa Temple. This was built by Rajasimha Pallava. This Rajasimha Pallava also built the Mahabalipuram temples and created history in sculpture by building aesthetically pleasing temples in places like Panamalai and Kanchi. In Mahabalipuram, in places like the cave temple, Ganesha Ratham, and Tiger Cave, he inscribed a sloka and below it, he engraved in stone that it was built by Athyanta Kama. Similarly, that name is also found in the Ratham known as Panchapandava Ratham. He inscribed the same message four times in the Kanchipuram Kailasanathar Temple using Grantha, Nagari, large Grantha, and pictorial scripts as inscriptions. This Rajasimha Pallava is said to have had 400 titles, one of which was Mamallan. That is why it is called Mamallapuram. In the temple inscriptions, this king referred to himself as Siva Chudamani, Agama Priyan, and Saiva Siddhantha Margaka. To that extent, this king was deeply involved in Agamas, devotion to Shiva, and Saiva Siddhanta. Therefore, the stone temple he built, the Kanchipuram Kailasanathar Temple, was a temple built by dedicating great wealth entirely for Lord Shiva. The day fixed for consecrating the Lord in that temple, the day of Pratishta and Kumbabhishekam, is the day when, according to the Sivagamas, through mantras, bhavana, and kriya, Lord Shiva is consecrated from His mantra form into the Linga form.

On the night before that Kumbabhishekam day, Lord Shiva appeared in the dream of King Rajasimha and bestowed His grace. Tenth verse. "Nindravur poosal anban nedithu naal ninainthu seytha nandru needu aalayaththu naalai naam puguvom nee ingu ondriya seyalai naalai ozhindhu pin kolvaay endru kondraivaar sadaiyaar thondar koyil kondarula ponthaar." Lord Shiva, who appeared in the dream, blessed the king. "Tomorrow, we will enter the enduring temple built by the devotee named Poosal in Thirunindravur, which he has contemplated and built for a long time. Therefore, you should postpone the ceremony you have fixed for this temple for tomorrow." Thus, Lord Shiva commanded and proceeded to reside in the temple built by Poosalaar Nayanar. The temple built by Poosalaar Nayanar is an external temple that might disappear over time. But the temple built by Poosalaar Nayanar in his mind is an enduring and beneficial temple forever. The Lord's command to the king was born out of His compassionate desire to make the world aware of the greatness of Poosalaar Nayanar's sacred service and his eminence, thereby saving them. Here, if one asks whether the omnipresent Lord, when two temples exist simultaneously, would command thus, the answer is that it was the Lord's intention to make the world aware of Poosalaar Nayanar's greatness. Therefore, this serves as an answer to the question of whether the omnipresent Lord would reside in only one temple at a time. Eleventh verse. "Thondarai vilakka thuyya un arul seyya thuyilai neengi thin thiral mannan antha thiruppani seythaar thammai kandu naan vananga vendum endru ezhum kaathalodum thandalai suzhal suzhntha nindravur vandhu saarnthaan." As the pure Lord Shiva thus commanded to make Poosalaar, the devotee, known to the world, the powerful king awoke from his sleep. With an ever-increasing desire to see and worship Poosalaar Nayanar, who had performed such a sacred service, he arrived at Thirunindravur, surrounded by groves. The king's act of going to see and worship Poosalaar Nayanar himself, instead of asking Poosalaar Nayanar to come to him, shows the abundance of his selfless love. Twelfth and thirteenth verses. "Appathi anainthu poosal anbar ingu amaiththa koyil eppathudaiyathu endru angann eythinaar thammai ketka seppiya poosal koyil seythathu ondru illai endraar. Meippperu maraiyor ellam varuga endru uraiththaan vendhan. Poosurar ellam vandhu puravalan thannai kaana maasilaa poosalaar thaam yaar ena maraiyor ellam aasila vedhiyan ivvuraan endru avar azhaikka ottaan eesar eesanaar anbar thampaal eythinan veyya velaan." Upon reaching Thirunindravur, the king immediately asked those present, "Where is the temple built by the devotee named Poosalaar?" They all replied, "O King, there is no temple built by Poosalaar as you mentioned." Hearing this, the king commanded, "Bring all the Vedic scholars, the Sivacharyas, of this place." All the Adisaivas gathered there. Then, when he asked who Poosalaar was, those Vedic scholars said, "Poosalaar is a faultless Vedic scholar from this town." Immediately, the king, eager to see Poosalaar Nayanar, quickly went to the place where Poosalaar Nayanar was. Fourteenth verse. "Thondaraich chendru kanda mannavan thozhuthu neer ingu kondu isaiyorum ettha eduththa aalayam thaan yaathu ingu andar naayagarai thaapiththu arulum naal indru endru ummai kandu adipanaiya vandhen kannuthal arul pettru endraan." The king, having seen and worshipped Poosalaar Nayanar, submitted to him, "O venerable one, which is the temple you have built here, praised by all directions? Today is the day to consecrate Lord Shiva, the Lord of the celestials, in that temple. Lord Shiva Himself appeared in my dream and informed me of this. Therefore, I have come here to see you and worship your feet." Fifteenth verse. "Mannavan uraippak ketta anbardham marundu nokki, ennai oru porulaagak konde embiraan arul seythaarel, munbu oru nidhi illaamai manaththinaal muyandra koyil innathaam endru sinthiththu eduththavaaru eduththuch chonnaar." Hearing the king's words, Poosalaar Nayanar, the devotee, was astonished. He looked at the king and said, "If my Lord has blessed me, considering me as someone worthy, then the temple I built in my mind due to lack of funds, the temple I conceived and built for the Lord in my mind, is this." He thus clearly explained the temple he had built purely as an act of thought. Poosalaar Nayanar thus spoke, feeling that since Lord Shiva had revealed it, he should explain it truthfully. Sixteenth verse. "Arasanum athanaik kettru angu athisayam eythi, enne! Puraiyaru sinthai anbar perumai endru avarai potri, virai seri maalai thaazha nilamisai veezhnthu thaazhnthu, murasari thaanaiyodu meendu than moothur pukkaan." Hearing Poosalaar Nayanar's words, the king was greatly astonished and exclaimed, "Oh, what greatness is this of a devotee with a flawless mind!" He praised Poosalaar Nayanar, and with his fragrant garland touching the ground, he fell prostrate and worshipped him. According to the saying "Wealth is the fulfillment of thought," here the lack of funds was a flaw. Poosalaar Nayanar revealed that flaw through the action of his mind. Therefore, he was a great person who became the object of the Lord's grace. After worshipping him, the king returned to his ancient city of Kanchipuram. Seventeenth verse. "Anbarum amaiththa sinthai aalayaththu aranaar thammai nanperum pozhuthu saarath thaapiththu nalaththinodum pinbu poosanaigal ellam perumaiyil pala naal peni, pon punai mandril aadum porkazhal neezhal pukkaar." After the king left, Poosalaar, the devotee, consecrated Lord Shiva in the temple he had built in his mind at that auspicious time. After the consecration, Poosalaar Nayanar continued to perform all the prescribed pujas, including Mandalabhishekam, daily pujas, festivals, and occasional pujas, according to the proper procedures. After performing this sacred service for many days, he attained the shade of the golden feet of the Lord who dances in the golden sacred hall. Thus concludes the Poosalaar Nayanar Puranam. Now, the concluding eighteenth verse. "Neenda senjadaiyinaarkku ninaippinaal koyil aakki, poonda anbu idaiyaraatha poosalaar potraal potri, aandagai valavar komaan ulaga uyya aliththa selvap paandi maadeviyaartham paathangal paravaluttren." This verse means: "Having built a temple in his mind for the Lord with long, red matted locks, and having praised the golden feet of Poosalaar, whose love was unceasing, I now proceed to praise the feet of Mangaiyarkkarasi Ammaiyar, the queen of Pandya, who was the wealth bestowed by the noble Chola king for the salvation of the world." Thus, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman concludes the Poosalaar Nayanar Puranam and begins the sacred history of Mangaiyarkkarasi Ammaiyar. Let us also praise the golden feet of Poosalaar Nayanar and, with that support, continue to reflect on the Puranam of Mangaiyarkkarasi Ammaiyar. Glory, glory to the sacred feet of Poosalaar Nayanar. Glory, glory to the sacred feet of our Lord Sundaramoorthy Swamigal. Glory, glory to the sacred feet of Nambiyandar Nambigal Peruman. Glory, glory to the sacred feet of the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. Glory, glory to the sacred feet of the commentator Sivakavimani Ayya. Thiruchitrambalam.