Chapter 01 — Thiruvarurp Pirandhar

Thiruchitrambalam. Periyapuranam, Part 1001, composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. This is the Puranam of Thiruvarur Pirandhar, from the chapter "Pattharai Panivar Sarukkam". In the Periyapuranam composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman, the Puranam of Thiruvarur Pirandhar is the 61st Puranam. In the 11th chapter, "Pattharai Panivar Sarukkam", the fourth section describes the Puranam of the collective devotees known as Thiruvarur Pirandhargal. Firstly, the section "Thiruvarur Pirandhargal Ellaarkkum Adiyen" from the 10th verse of Thiruthondathogai, composed by our Lord Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, states that those born in Thiruvarur are endowed with past merits. The meaning of this is that "I am a servant to all those born in Thiruvarur with such past merits." In the 73rd verse of the categorized work Thiruthondar Thiruvandhadhi, Nambiandar Nambigal Peruman has praised the collective devotees known as Thiruvarur Pirandhargal. That verse is: "Selvam thigazh Thiruvarur madhil vattaththul pirandhaar Selvan Thirukkanaththu ullavare adhanaal thigazh selvam perugu then Aaroor pirandhavar sevadiye sel neriyuruvaar gal aniththaaya sel neriyee." Thiruvarur is a prosperous and glorious town. The city of Thiruvarur is surrounded by walls. It was the capital of the Cholas and the city ruled by Thyagaraja Peruman, hence it is surrounded by walls. Those born within the sacred walls of Thiruvarur, that is, within the boundaries of Thiruvarur, belong to the sacred retinue of Lord Shiva, who is the wealthy one. They are the Shiva ganas who have the blessing of being born in Thiruvarur. Here, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman refers to Lord Shiva as "Selvan". "Selvan" implies that Lord Shiva is endowed with supreme prosperity. Therefore, the Shiva ganas themselves have the merit of being born in Thiruvarur. Thus, the sacred feet of those born in the prosperous and glorious South Thiruvarur will be the good path for those who seek the path to liberation. The meaning of this is that bowing to those born in Thiruvarur will bring liberation very close. Now, in the detailed work Periyapuranam, composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman, the Puranam of Thiruvarur Pirandhar praises the collective devotees of Thiruvarur Pirandhar in two verses. The glories of the sacred place of Thiruvarur are countless. We have been reading about all the glories of Thiruvarur from the beginning of this Puranam in each section. At the beginning of the Puranam, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman sang about the glory of Thiruvarur as "Thirunagarach Chirappu". There, he explained all the glories of Thiruvarur. We also contemplated the Puranam of Thiruvarur there. We saw that the city for this Puranam is the city of Thiruvarur itself. We also saw that the Thiruthondathogai Thiruppathigam, which was the primary reason for this Periyapuranam to be bestowed upon us, was given by Sri Math Thyagaraja Peruman to Sundaramoorthy Swamigal in Thiruvarur. We saw all its details in the Puranam of Thaduththaat Kondar. Furthermore, in the glory of the city of Thiruvarur, we contemplated the history of Manu Needhi Chola. Following that, we contemplated the glories of Thiruvarur in numerous Puranams such as Thaduththaat Kondar Puranam, Viranminda Nayanar Puranam, and so on. We contemplated the Thiruppathigams composed by the three great saints as "Thiruvarur Thiruppathigangal". It is the Prithvi Sthalam among the five great elemental Sthalams. It is the Mooladhara Sthalam for the Virat Purusha. All the Shiva Kalais present in all Shiva temples in the world are seen to manifest together in Thiruvarur during the evening worship called Sayaratchai. We also saw that the antiquity of Thiruvarur was praised by Appar Swamigal. We saw that Thirunavukkarasar Peruman sang, "The day he stood alone in the world, the day he became a tall one on earth, is the day he made Thiruvarur his temple." We saw there that the Lord of Thiruvarur showed Naminandhi Adigal Nayanar that all those born in such Thiruvarur are Shiva ganas. Such glorious ones are the collective devotees known as Thiruvarur Pirandhargal. The first verse in the Puranam of Thiruvarur Pirandhar is: "Aruvaagi uruvaagi anaiththumaay nindra piraan maruvaarum kuzhal umaiyaal manavaalan magizhndharulum Thiruvarur pirandhargal thiruththondu therindhu unara oru vaayaal siriyanaal uraikkalaam thagaimaiyatho." The divine Sekkizhar Peruman states that it is not possible for a small person like him to understand and describe the sacred service of those born in Thiruvarur, the Lord who is formless and with form, who stands as all things, the husband of Umaiyaal with fragrant hair, and who rejoices in Thiruvarur. The second verse is: "Thirukkailai veetrirundha Sivaperumaan Thirukkanaththaar perukkiya seer Thiruvarur pirandhargal aadhilinaal tharukkiya vai aimpori adakki matru avardham thaal vanangi orukkiya nenju udaiyavarkke aniththaagum uyar neriyee." The meaning of this is that all those born in Thiruvarur are the Shiva ganas who reside in Thirukkailai with Lord Shiva. Therefore, for those who control the five senses that rise with pride, bow to the sacred feet of the collective devotees born in Thiruvarur, and have a unified mind, the high path of liberation will be very close. Therefore, the Shiva ganas have the glory of being born in Thiruvarur. Such great ascetics are those born in Thiruvarur. They are all liberated souls. Moreover, we understand that they are souls with the nature of Acharyas who guide other beings on the path to liberation. Those who are born in the Shiva Sthalam of Thiruvarur as followers of the Saiva tradition due to the merits earned in previous births, whether they belong to the four varnas of Brahmana, Kshatriya, Vaishya, or Sudra, or even if they are of mixed castes, will become Shiva Gananathas by attaining the divine grace of Paramashiva. Lord Shiva is enshrined here as Vanmeeganathar, the Lord who resides in the anthill, in the form of a Lingam. Thiruvarur is the foremost among the seven Vidanga Sthalams of Thyagaraja Peruman, who ruled the golden land. It is a sacred place that has been the setting for all the important historical narratives of our Lord Sundaramoorthy Swamigal. It is the place where the Thiruthondathogai, which is the core idea for the history of devotees, the wealthy in Saiva devotion and knowledge, originated from the Devasraya Mandapam where the assembly of Shiva devotees shines. Those who are blessed to be born in such a glorious sacred place are Shiva ganas who have come from Thirukkailai. Therefore, the essence of this Puranam is that bowing to the sacred feet of these collective devotees, the Thiruvarur Pirandhargal, will lead one to the high path of liberation. Thus, the Puranam of Thiruvarur Pirandhar concludes. Next, we will contemplate the Puranam of Muppodhum Thirumeni Theendhuvaar. Praise, praise to the sacred feet of all Thiruvarur Pirandhargal. Praise, praise to the sacred feet of our Lord Sundaramoorthy Swamigal. Praise, praise to the sacred feet of Nambiandar Nambigal Peruman. Praise, praise to the sacred feet of the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. Praise, praise to the sacred feet of the commentator Sivakavimani Aiyya. Thiruchitrambalam.