Chapter 01 — Viran Mindar Nayanar

Thiruchitrambalam. In the Periya Puranam, in the second chapter, Thillai Vaazh Andhanar Sarukkam, we have so far contemplated the Puranas of Thillai Vaazh Andhanars, Thiruneelakandathu Kuyavanar, Iyarpagai Nayanar, Ilaiyankudi Mara Nayanar, and Meipporul Nayanar. Next, Sekkizhar composes and sings the Purana of Viran Mindar Nayanar. Following the order of Thiruthondathogai composed by Sundaramurthy Swamigal, Sekkizhar sings the first verse, "Thillai Vaazh Andhanartham Adiyaarkkum Adiyen," as the second chapter, Thillai Vaazh Andhanar Sarukkam. In that first verse of Thiruthondathogai, we contemplated the Puranas up to this part: "Thillai Vaazh Andhanartham Adiyaarkkum Adiyen, Thiruneelakandathu Kuyavanarkku Adiyen, Illaiye Ennaatha Iyarpagaikkum Adiyen, Ilaiyaanthan Kudimaaran Adiyaarkkum Adiyen, Vellumaa Migavalla Meipporulukku Adiyen." Now, in the next line of this verse, Sundaramurthy Swamigal has sung, "Viri Pozhil Suzhl Kundraiyaar Viranmindarkku Adiyen." Therefore, following this, Sekkizhar Swamigal also composes and sings the Purana of Viran Mindar Nayanar. This is the sixth Nayanar Purana in the sequential order. In the individual Adiyar (devotee) series, it is the fifth Nayanar Purana. First, we will contemplate the meaning of the line "Viri Pozhil Suzhl Kundraiyaar Viranmindarkku Adiyen" from Thiruthondathogai, then the verse about this Nayanar from the collection Thiruthondar Thiruvandhadhi, and then sequentially contemplate the verses in the Periya Puranam's Viran Mindar Nayanar Purana. The title of this Purana is Viran Mindar Nayanar Purana. This section narrates the historical account and qualities of the Nayanar named Viran Mindar. Now, in the collection Thiruthondar Thiruthogai, the meaning of "Viri Pozhil Suzhl Kundraiyaar Viranmindarkku Adiyen" is, "I am a devotee to Viran Mindar, the devotee who was born in Thiruchengunrur, surrounded by expansive groves." Viran Mindar Nayanar was born in Thiruchengunrur. Therefore, he is referred to as Kundraiyaar. That is, Kundrai is the name of the town Thiruchengunrur. So, Kundraiyaar means "one who was born in Thiruchengunrur." This Kundrai, or Thiruchengunrur, is called "Viri Pozhil Suzhl Kundrai." That is, "Viri Pozhil" signifies the specialty of the town Thiruchengunrur. Its meaning is "Thiruchengunrur, which has very large and expansive groves." Viran Mindar is the name of the Nayanar. "ViraL" means valor, and "Mindu" means strength. This Nayanar shone with valor and strength in the sacred service of devotees. Therefore, the name Viran Mindar Nayanar is both his given name and a descriptive name. Now we have seen a line about this Nayanar in the collection Thiruthondar Thiruthogai. Next, the verse that speaks of the greatness of this Nayanar in the type of work, Thiruthondar Thiruvandhadhi, is as follows: "Pesum Perumai Av Aarooranaiyum Piraan Avanaam Eesan Thanaiyum Puragu Sattu Endravan Eesanukke Nesan Enakkum Piraan Manaikke Puga Needu Thendral Veesum Pozhil Thiruchengunram Meya Viranmindane." Now, let us contemplate the history of the Nayanar through Sekkizhar's actions in the detailed work, Periya Puranam. The history of Viran Mindar Nayanar is a history that comes together with the history of Sundaramurthy Swamigal. We have already contemplated the history of Sundaramurthy Swamigal composing the Thiruthondathogai in the Thaduthaatkonnda Purana. The history of Viran Mindar Nayanar is related to that history. In the Thaduthaatkonnda Purana, when Sundaramurthy Swamigal was living in Thiruvarur, one day, as usual, he went for a temple darshan.

As he went for darshan at the Thiruvarur temple, he saw all the devotees gathered in the Devasiriya Mandapam of the Thiruvarur temple. He entered, thinking, "When will be the day I become a devotee to all these devotees?" He entered the temple. At that time, Thyagaraja Peruman gave him a counter-vision. Then Sundaramurthy Swamigal praised and worshipped the sacred feet of Thyagaraja Peruman. Sundaramurthy Swamigal entered with the thought, "When will be the day I become a devotee to the devotees of Shiva?" Thyagaraja Peruman granted him that boon and instructed him to sing the history of the devotees as the Thiruthondathogai, and Thyagaraja Peruman himself gave him the first line, "Thillai Vaazh Andhanartham Adiyaarkkum Adiyen." After that, Sundaramurthy Swamigal sang this entire hymn, praised the devotees of Shiva in the Devasiriya Mandapam, and joined them as one of the devotees. This is the event we saw in the Thaduthaatkonnda Purana. Here, the history of Viran Mindar Nayanar is also related to this event. Viran Mindar Nayanar was born in the ancient sacred place called Thiruchengunrur in Malainadu. Malainadu is present-day Kerala. Sekkizhar states that it is a town called Thiruchengunrur in Malainadu. It is the sacred place called Chengannur in present-day Kerala state. The Chengannur Mahadeva Temple and Bhagavathi Temple are very famous. Viran Mindar Nayanar was born in the Vellalar lineage in this Chengannur. He held the sacred feet of Lord Shiva as his sole support, casting aside all other attachments. He had a special love for the true devotees of Shiva. He was one who adhered to the practice of first bowing and worshipping the assembly of devotees wherever he went to worship Lord Shiva, and only then worshipping the Lord. Therefore, Viran Mindar Nayanar crossed Malainadu, visited various Shiva temples, worshipped all the assemblies of devotees, reached Thiruvarur, and sat in the Devasiriya Mandapam there. Sundaramurthy Swamigal, who daily worshipped the Lord in Thiruvarur, one day, while going for darshan at the Thiruvarur temple, mentally praised the devotees present in the Devasiriya Mandapam, thinking, "When will be the day I become a devotee to all these great devotees?" He only worshipped them mentally and, without going to worship them physically, somewhat avoided them and went straight into the temple to worship the Lord. Viran Mindar Nayanar, who was sitting inside the Devasiriya Mandapam, was very excellent in both devotion to devotees and devotion to the Lord. He strictly followed the rule that one should first worship the devotees and only then worship the Lord. He saw Sundaramurthy Swamigal going straight to worship the Lord without worshipping the devotees. Therefore, Viran Mindar Nayanar, by the grace of the Lord, declared that Sundaramurthy, the stubborn devotee, was an outsider to the devotees of Shiva, and that Lord Shiva, his master, was also an outsider. It was because of this incident that Sundaramurthy Swamigal later composed the Thiruthondathogai, a sacred hymn, for the salvation of the world, praised the assembly of devotees, and became one of them. Even the Lord said, "We are with the devotees." Thus, Viran Mindar Nayanar was the Nayanar who caused Sundaramurthy Swamigal to compose the flawless Thiruthondathogai. Viran Mindar Nayanar thus protected the Saiva path for many days, performed sacred service, and bestowed grace upon living beings. By the greatness of this sacred service, Lord Shiva, by His grace, bestowed upon Viran Mindar Nayanar the status of a chief among His ganas (attendants) and the joy of living under His sacred feet. This is the brief summary of Viran Mindar Nayanar.

Now, let us extensively contemplate the history of Viran Mindar Nayanar through the verses of Sekkizhar's Periya Puranam. Thiruchitrambalam.

Chapter 02 — Viran Mindar Nayanar

Thiruchitrambalam. In the Periya Puranam, Thillai Vaazh Andhanar Sarukkam, we are going to contemplate the history of Viran Mindar Nayanar. Our Lord Shiva wears a garland of fragrant Konrai flowers. Elders say that the fragrance of the Konrai flower is a mantra-fragrance. Because the Konrai flower resembles the Pranava (Om), elders call its fragrance a mantra-fragrance. This Konrai flower naturally blooms in clusters, like a strung garland. Other flowers have to be picked by devotees and strung into garlands. But Konrai flowers naturally bloom in garlands. Why do Konrai flowers naturally bloom in garlands? Because Konrai flowers have great devotion to Shiva's devotees and, thinking that they should not even give the devotees the work of stringing garlands, they bloom as garlands themselves, having the greatness of serving Shiva's devotees. That is why Konrai flowers are the most beloved and favored flowers of Lord Shiva. In many sacred places, the Konrai tree is the Sthala Vriksham (sacred tree). Therefore, Lord Shiva very fondly wears the Konrai garland on His matted hair. Konrai and matted hair are special symbols unique to Lord Shiva. Parashurama, the great ascetic, who obtained the weapon called Parasu, praised the sacred feet of Lord Shiva, who wears such a Konrai garland. In Tamil, "Parasu" means to praise. "Parasu" also refers to the axe-weapon. Therefore, the name Parashurama can mean "Rama who praises the Lord" and "Rama who obtained the axe-weapon called Parasu" in both ways. There are two incarnations of Mahavishnu with the name Rama. One is Dasharatha Rama, and the other is Parashurama. Rama generally refers to Dasharatha Rama. Therefore, to differentiate him, it is our tradition to call this ascetic sage Parashurama. Our Viran Mindar Nayanar was born in Chengannur, also known as Thiruchengunrur, in Malainadu, the land of Kerala, which was created by the ascetic sage Parashurama. The history of Parashurama is found in various Puranas. Parashurama was the son of Jamadagni Muni. To avenge the killing of his father, Jamadagni Muni, by the lineage of Kartavirya Arjuna, Parashurama vowed to kill all the descendants of Kartavirya Arjuna and performed great penance to Lord Shiva. By Shiva's grace, he obtained the Parasu weapon. With the help of this Parasu weapon, Parashurama killed the Kshatriya kings as he had intended and pleased his ancestors by performing Pitru Tarpanam with their blood. The detailed history of this can be found in various Puranas. Parashurama, who was an incarnation of Mahavishnu and a direct disciple of Parameshwara, wished to create a land for himself after donating all the lands he had conquered to Brahmins to atone for the sin of Kshatriya Niggiraha (extermination of Kshatriyas) that he had committed. Therefore, he performed severe penance at Gokarna Kshetra, facing Varuna Deva, the king of the sea, and requested him to allocate land for him. Varuna Deva asked Parashurama, "How can I give land to you, an incarnation of Narayana? Therefore, throw your axe, Parasu. I will give you as much land as the sea recedes when you throw it." Varuna swore to this. Accordingly, the Parasu weapon thrown by Parashurama from Gokarna Kshetra caused the sea to recede up to Kanyakumari.

Parashurama divided this land into 64 villages. He settled Brahmins there. Of these, 32 villages were in Tulu Nadu, extending from Gokarna to Perumbuzha, and the remaining 32 villages were in Malayalam-speaking country, extending from Perumbuzha to Kanyakumari. Some parts of these villages are even today in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. These details are extensively given in the Kerala Kalpam of the Brahmanda Purana and in Kerala Utpatti. That is why this region came to be known as Parashurama Kshetra. This Malainadu, or Kerala, is uniquely distinguished from many surrounding countries by its abundance of rain, water resources, land fertility, prosperity of its people, and their moral conduct. In this land, Brahmins and their Vedic practices flourish and are highly esteemed. We saw that the 32 Namboodiri villages, from Perumbuzha to Kanyakumari, created by Parashurama, are in Malayalam Desam, or Kerala Desam, didn't we? Chengannur is one such village among those 32 Brahmin villages. Sekkizhar Swamigal refers to this Chengannur as Thiruchengunrur in the Periya Puranam. The Mahadeva Temple in this Thiruchengunrur is very famous. This Thiruchengunrur, or Chengannur Mahadeva Temple, has the distinction of being a Vaippu Sthalam (a place mentioned in a hymn but not having a dedicated hymn) in the hymns of Thirunavukkarasu Swamigal. We all know that there are 274 Thevara Paadal Petra Sthalams (temples sung by the Thevaram poets). Similarly, there is also a category called Thevara Vaippu Sthalams. These Vaippu Sthalams do not have any separate hymns. However, these places are mentioned in other hymns. Saivites celebrate these places mentioned in other hymns as Vaippu Sthalams. This Chengannur Mahadeva Temple is a Vaippu Sthalam mentioned in the hymn of Thirunavukkarasu Swamigal. Appar Swamigal has mentioned this place in his Kshetra Thiruthandagam, listing the Malainadu places as Kodungalur, Anjaikkalam, and Sengunrur. This place called Chengannur is currently located in the Alappuzha district of Kerala. One can reach this place by traveling east from Kollam in the west. One can also reach it by traveling from Tenkasi in Tamil Nadu. Those coming from the north can reach Chengannur by passing through Kochi, Ernakulam, Ettumanoor, Kottayam, Changanassery, and Thiruvalla. This Malainadu was formerly known as Cheranadu. It was a part of Tamil Nadu. It was a land ruled by Chera kings. The Mahadeva Temple is located on the banks of the Pampa River. The Bhagavathi here is very famous in Kerala. A special festival of 28 days is held for the Utsava Murthi (processional deity) of Bhagavathi. Eight or ten times a year, there is a special "Poopu Utsavam" (menstruation festival) for the Bhagavathi here. During those times, menstrual stains appear on the clothes of the Utsava Murthi of Bhagavathi. During that period, the temple is closed for three days, and the deity is kept outside in a suitable place, and then after ablutions and other rituals, pujas are performed in the temple as usual. It is said that a British government official named Munro, who was curious about this novelty, initially refused to believe it and disallowed the expenses. Later, when he understood the truth from the concerned people, he recorded the expenses and ordered a permanent plan for it. The details of this can be found in the Travancore Manual, Volume 2,

Chapter 03 — Viran Mindar Nayanar

Thiruchitrambalam. In the Periya Puranam, in the Thillai Vaazh Andhanar Sarukkam, we are contemplating the history of Viran Mindar Nayanar. The country where Viran Mindar Nayanar was born is Malainadu, also known as Cheranadu. The sacred place where he was born is Chengannur, also known as Thiruchengunrur. This Malainadu, or Cheranadu, is a country rich in marine resources. It is a country where marine resources flourish. It is a country abundant in pearls and other gems, salt and other valuable commodities, and all other marine resources. This marine wealth is referred to as "Peruvallam" (great wealth) by Sekkizhar. This is because this marine wealth is not cultivated by human effort but naturally grows from the sea and coastal areas, benefiting humankind. Therefore, this marine wealth is called "Peruvallam" by Sekkizhar. Tamils divided lands into four major categories: Kurinji, Mullai, Marudham, and Neydhal. Kurinji is mountains and mountainous regions. Mullai is forests and forest regions. Marudham is fields and agricultural regions. Neydhal is the sea and coastal regions. Sekkizhar, in describing the greatness of Malainadu, first states that it is a country distinguished by its marine wealth. Thus, he said that this Malainadu flourishes due to the wealth of the Neydhal land. Not only that, he also states that this Malainadu, or Cheranadu, is a country that yields great benefits with its abundant produce from Marudham land. This Malainadu is rich in land fertility with various Marudham land produce such as paddy, plantain, mango, jackfruit, coconut, and others. In this Malainadu, the sky rains on time, and therefore, this country possesses the fertility of Marudham land. Seeing fertile cultivation on mountain slopes is a sight unseen elsewhere. In other countries, Marudham land flourishes through human efforts, with fields, lakes, canals, dams, and various other means. But in this Malainadu, without human effort, the land, rain, and mountains naturally combine perfectly and grow luxuriantly, which is its greatness. Not only that, this is Malainadu. Therefore, it also flourishes with mountain produce such as agarwood, sandalwood, honey, gems, and other resources. Thus, this Malainadu flourishes with abundant marine wealth, Marudham land agricultural wealth, and mountain wealth. Even today, we can see groves in every house in this Malainadu. Thus, Malainadu is a country where each resource, individually and collectively, is abundant. Cheraman Perumal Nayanar, also known as Kalarittarivar Nayanar, and Sundaramurthy Swamigal ascended to Thirukailash from Thiruanjaikkalam, a sacred place in this Malainadu. It is in the history where Upamanyu Muni saw Sundaramurthy Swamigal and Cheraman Perumal Nayanar ascending to Thirukailash and narrated it to other munis that this Purana, the Periya Puranam, begins. Therefore, Sekkizhar, at this point where he first describes Malainadu, describes the country's wealth, both concisely and extensively, as appropriate for the context. Furthermore, the extensive details of Malainadu's greatness can be found in the Cheraman Perumal Nayanar Purana, also known as Kalarittarivar Nayanar Purana, and in sections like Vellana Sarukkam. Sekkizhar Swamigal describes this Malainadu as a country extremely rich in pearls. Just as the smiles of the beautiful women of this Malainadu radiate light, so too do many radiant pearls grow here. Sekkizhar Swamigal describes how the women of Cheranadu string these pearls very beautifully. Tamil literature mentions 20 to 32 places where pearls grow. Among them, Sekkizhar Swamigal mentions four prominent places here.

Cheranadu, also known as Malainadu, is a country extremely rich in marine resources. Therefore, it possesses radiant pearls that originate from the sea. It is a country abundant in Marudham land, meaning agricultural fields. Therefore, this Malainadu has many pearls that come from sugarcane grown in the fields. This Cheranadu also possesses the wealth of cool pearls that grow from bamboos in mountainous regions. This Chera country also has an abundance of pearls born from the tusks of elephants that roam the mountains. Sekkizhar Swamigal composes a verse describing this: "Vaari Soriyum Kathirmuthum Vayalmen Karumbil Padumuthum Veral Vilaiyum Kulirmuthum Vezha Maruppin Olirmuthum Moorala Enach Chol Venmutha Nagaiyaar Therindhu Muraikkookkum Cherar Thirunadu." Pearls that grow in the sea are found in abundance in certain seasons in coastal areas. The profession of extracting such pearls from the sea is called pearl diving. Next, Sekkizhar Swamigal states that pearls also emerge from sugarcane grown in Marudham land, meaning agricultural fields. Not all sugarcane in the fields produces pearls. Pearls grow only in a few rare sugarcane stalks. And even those are very rare to come across by human hands. Next, pearls that grow in bamboos in the mountains and pearls that grow from elephant tusks are shed in the mountains and carried down by rainwater in rivers. He emphasizes that this country is rich in such pearls that rivers bring and deposit. Elders call pearls born from the sea "Jalajam." Because these pearls are born in water, they have a radiant surface like a water current. They are born in shells. Pearls that grow from sugarcane are hard and firm. Pearls that grow from bamboo are cool. Pearls that grow from elephant tusks are very luminous. The details of these are extensively explained in the section "Manikkam Vitra Leelai" in the Thiruvilaiyadal Puranam. Moreover, their explanations are found in various other literary works and artistic treatises. Generally, when describing the wealth of a country, the Tamil literary tradition is to describe mountain wealth (Kurinji), forest wealth (Mullai), field wealth (Marudham), and finally marine wealth (Neydhal). However, here Sekkizhar Swamigal first describes marine wealth, then field wealth, and then mountain wealth. This is because this is the country where Viran Mindar Nayanar was born. Viran Mindar Nayanar, by explaining sacred service, became the cause for the composition of the Thiruthondathogai, and through that, Viran Mindar Nayanar became the cause for the salvation of the living beings in this world. This land is the birthplace of Viran Mindar Nayanar, who is the cause for living beings born in water to gradually progress, reach the summit of mountains, and attain the Shiva-state of Thirukailash, the best of mountains, or Shivaloka. Therefore, Sekkizhar, by first describing marine wealth, then the field wealth above it, and then the mountain wealth above that, implicitly conveys the greatness of Viran Mindar Nayanar. Moreover, this country was born from the sea when Parashurama threw his axe into it. Therefore, we can find an inner meaning that Sekkizhar Swamigal sings by placing marine wealth first. Furthermore, this Chera country has abundant marine resources, field resources, and mountain resources. However, Sekkizhar Swamigal proudly sings about the pearl wealth found in the sea, fields, and mountains, placing it first among all other resources. Why does Sekkizhar Swamigal specifically highlight pearls in this way, even though there are many other resources? The word "Muthu" (pearl) means "to be released."

It will yield. Even the word "Mukti" means "to be released." It is because of this release that Mukti got its name. This Chera country, with its coastal areas, agricultural areas, and mountainous areas, has the specialty of granting liberation, or Mukti, to living beings everywhere. That is why Sekkizhar Swamigal specifically highlights pearl wealth here, more than all other resources. While all literary works state that pearls grow in 20 to 32 places, why does Sekkizhar Swamigal specifically mention four types of pearls here? It is to indicate that living beings have four types of birth. Pearls are obtained from the sea, sugarcane, bamboo, and elephants. Sekkizhar Swamigal also describes that these cannot be compared to the pearl-like teeth that show through the smiles of the women of this country. These women of Chera Nadu perform the work of stringing pearls. They know the technique of stringing pearls systematically. They know the nuances of how to string pearls to achieve beauty and maximum value, by understanding the differences and similarities in their luster, shape, weight, and radiance. Thus, in this Chera country, beautified by water resources, land resources, material wealth, the excellence of its people, and industrial wealth, Chengannur, or Thiruchengunrur, is a town of great renown among all towns. "Kunru" means mountain. This town is Thiruchengunrur. That is, it means a town with excellent mountains. "Semmai" (excellence) refers to the quality of Shiva. Since this is the place where Lord Shiva's Mahadeva temple is located and where Shiva's devotee Viran Mindar Nayanar was born, the name Thiruchengunrur is appropriate. So far, Sekkizhar Swamigal has described the greatness of Chera Nadu, and now he begins to describe the greatness of this sacred place, Thiruchengunrur. This sacred place is a place of great renown that bestows elevation upon the world. It is a town that flourishes with agricultural wealth, as farming is carried out excellently in the fields where swans swim. Due to this agricultural wealth, this Thiruchengunrur has the distinction of being home to two great communities: Brahmins and Vellalars. This Thiruchengunrur is one of the 32 villages in Malayalam given to Brahmins by Parashurama. Therefore, the Brahmin community lives here, owning the lands. The Vellalar community, who perform agricultural work on these lands, also lives here. Therefore, both Brahmins and Vellalars live here with great pride due to the excellence of agriculture. The Brahmins living in Malainadu are called Namboodiris and Pottis. They are people who uphold and follow the Vedic injunctions without fail, possessing that greatness and tradition. It is noteworthy that the Vedic injunctions are still practiced by these Brahmins today. Just as it is said that there were three thousand Thillai Vaazh Andhanars, it is also said that there were three thousand Vedic scholars in this Chengannur, or Thiruchengunrur. References to this can be found in Vaishnava literature, such as the Pasurams of Nammalvar. Nammalvar refers to this in his Pasurams, saying, "Manakkol Seer Moovaayiravar Van Sivanum Ayanum Thaanum Oppaar Vaazh Kanakkol Thin Maada Thiruchengunruril Thiruchitraatru Adhanul Kandeney" and "Amarndha Than Padhanath Thiruchengunruril Thiruchitraatrang Karaiyaanai Amarndha Seer Moovaayiravar Vedhiyargal Tham Pathi Avani Devar Vaazh." Note

He mentions. Generally, agriculture is not a prescribed occupation for Brahmins. However, this country was given as a gift to Brahmins by Sage Parashurama. Therefore, in the Namboodiri villages of this Malayalam country, they themselves are the owners of the agricultural lands. Even though they are the owners of the land, they employed Vellalars to perform agricultural work in the fields. This is because agriculture is not their prescribed occupation. Therefore, they settled Vellalars here, entrusted them with the responsibility of agricultural work, and both Vellalars and Brahmins benefited from it and lived prosperously. Therefore, it is a unique feature of this country, unlike any other, that these two communities are connected as landowners and flourish in this country, which can still be seen today. The details of the land rights of these two communities can also be found in the land rights laws of this country. Both communities, Vellalars and Brahmins, are followers of the Vedas. Vellalars are those who follow the path taught by the Vedas. Brahmins are those who come from that Vedic tradition. Even though Brahmins are the landlords here, Sekkizhar, in this verse, mentions the Vellalars first, before them. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, even though the Brahmins own the land, agriculture is not prescribed for them. Therefore, Sekkizhar Swamigal sings about the Vellalars first, as they are entitled to agricultural work. Not only that, without Vellalars, agriculture would not happen. Therefore, considering their importance, he sings about the Vellalars first. According to the Kural, "Uzhuvaar Ulagaththarkku Aani Aththaatra Thozhuvarai Ellam Poruththu" (Farmers are the linchpin of the world; they support all those who cannot farm), he places Vellalars in the forefront. Not only that, Vellalars also have the right to live on the land of this country, and Vellalars constitute the majority of the population in this country. Brahmins are a minority. Sekkizhar Swamigal also sings about the Vellalar community first here, considering this. The main reason for all these reasons is that our Viran Mindar Nayanar was born in the Vellalar community. Therefore, considering this specialty, Sekkizhar Swamigal sings about the Vellalar lineage first in this verse. By Sekkizhar singing about the Brahmins, the first of the four varnas, and the Vellalars, the fourth varna, we should understand that the other varnas also live prosperously in this sacred place. We will continue to contemplate. Thiruchitrambalam.

Chapter 04 — Viran Mindar Nayanar

Thiruchitrambalam. In the Periya Puranam, in the Thillai Vaazh Andhanar Sarukkam, we are contemplating the Purana of Viran Mindar Nayanar. Our Viran Mindar Nayanar is born in the Vellalar lineage in Thiruchengunrur, also known as Chengannur, in Malainadu, or Chera Nadu. Our Viran Mindar Nayanar lives by holding onto the sacred feet of Lord Shiva, who possesses immense glory, and casting aside all other attachments. The Vellalar lineage gained great pride because of his birth. Even though the Vellalar lineage already possessed immeasurable glories, it attained immeasurable distinction by having Viran Mindar Nayanar, who was instrumental in the world receiving the flawless Thiruthondathogai and thereby enabling the salvation of the living beings in this world. Viran Mindar Nayanar lives by holding onto the sacred feet of Lord Shiva as his sole support. Lord Shiva is one whose great glory is inexpressible. We saw this extensively in the very first verse of Periya Puranam, "Ulagelaam Unarndhu Otharkariyan" (He who is difficult for the whole world to know and praise). "Yatho Vaacho Nivarthanthe Apraapya Manasaa Saha" is from the Taittiriya Upanishad. It states that God cannot be conceived by the mind nor explained by words. That is why Sekkizhar Peruman says, "Sepparkariya Perum Seerthich Sivanaar" (Lord Shiva, whose great glory is inexpressible). The Vedas, as sacred texts, speak in various ways, delighting in and conveying the great, inexpressible glory of Lord Shiva. The word "Sivam" also means "to be" and "to lie." Therefore, the Vedas speak of the various glories of Lord Shiva, who is everywhere and pervades everything, His omniscience, and His nature of being one with, different from, and accompanying living beings. The Sri Rudram in the Vedas extensively praises and glorifies Lord Shiva's omnipresence. The Tamil Veda, the Thevaram sung by Appar Peruman, also says, "Mannaagi Vinnaagi Malaiyumaai Vairamumaai Maanikkam Thaaneyaagi" (He became earth, sky, mountain, diamond, and ruby) and "Man Allai Vin Allai Valaya Allai Malai Allai Kadal Allai Vaayum Allai" (You are not earth, not sky, not a circle, not a mountain, not a sea, not a mouth). Thus, both the Sanskrit Vedas and the Tamil Vedas speak highly of this glory of the Lord, who exists as everything and as not everything. The grace that the Lord bestows upon living beings is the greatest of His glories. Manikkavasaga Swamigal has also extensively sung about this in the "Keerthithiru Agaval." The Vedas, as if offering compliments, also speak of the glories of deities like Brahma and Vishnu. However, these are praises that lack substance, as they speak of those who do not possess all divine qualities as if they do. Among all these, the Vedas ultimately speak most highly of Shiva's glory with powerful statements. For example, if we take the complimentary statement that Brahma is "Ajan" (unborn), this statement loses its substance when it is said that Brahma Deva was born from Vishnu's navel. Similarly, the Narayana Upanishad praises Vishnu, saying Narayana is the Atman, He is truth, He was the first, He is Indra, and so on. But in the end, the Svetasvatara Upanishad says of Narayana, "Paro Dhyaataa" (He is the meditator). He is the meditator, therefore Shiva is to be meditated upon, He is the one who is meditated upon. "Shiva Eko Deva" (Shiva alone is God) is from the Atharva Shika Upanishad. When it concludes this way, it explains that all the praises of other deities mentioned earlier are praises that lack substance, and the praises that glorify Lord Shiva are praises that contain substance, thus proving it in the Vedas. The Tamil Vedas also express the same idea: "Paiyan Sudar Vidu Naagappalli Kolvaan Ullaththaan" (He is in the heart of the one who takes refuge in the radiant serpent), "Thirumaal Agaththaan" (He is within Vishnu), "Thozhappadum Devar Thozhappaduvaanai" (He is worshipped by the gods who are worshipped), "Sernthariyaa Kaiyaan" (He whose hands are not known to join), and "Thannaal Thozhappaduvaarillai Thaane" (There is none to be worshipped by Him). These notes are from the commentary written by Sri Sadashiva Chettiar for the Periya Puranam. The sacred feet of such a glorious Lord Shiva are red, sacred feet. The greatness of Lord Shiva's sacred feet can be extensively seen and understood in the Thiruvadi Thiruthandagam. The grace of the Lord is referred to as His sacred feet. When a divine form is attributed to the Lord, sacred feet are also attributed. Those sacred feet are Shiva's power. That itself is the means of salvation. That itself bestows liberation. Those sacred feet are red sacred feet, red because everyone offers flowers and worships them. Thayumanavar sings, "Devar Ellaam Thozhach Sivandha Senthaal Mukkat Sengarumbe" (O red sugarcane with three eyes, whose red feet are worshipped by all gods). Our Viran Mindar Nayanar held onto these sacred feet. The sacred feet are the only thing worth holding onto. The sacred feet adorned with anklets are the sacred feet. Why should one hold onto the sacred feet? Because one should hold onto the sacred feet to sever all other attachments. When other attachments are severed, attachment to the sacred feet arises. If we cultivate attachment to the sacred feet, other attachments will naturally cease. Both of these must happen by the grace of the Lord. That is why the Thevaram says, "Mudhalvan Paathame Patraa Nindraarai Patraa Paavame" (Sin does not cling to those who cling to the Lord's feet). All attachments other than the attachment to the Lord's sacred feet can be divided into two categories: one is the internal attachment of "I" (Aham) and the other is the external attachment of "mine" (Mama). Our Viran Mindar Nayanar severed these internal and external attachments of "I" and "mine," or ego and possessiveness, and also severed attachments to the celestial, infernal, and earthly realms, and held onto only the attachment to Lord Shiva's sacred feet. "Bhogam Vendil Vendilen Purandharaathi Inbamum Ega Nin Kazhal Inaiyalaadhu Ilaen" is the 72nd verse of Thiruchathagam from Thiruvachagam, composed by Manikkavasaga Swamigal. Viran Mindar Nayanar, by abandoning all attachments in this way, shone with a desirelessness that did not even desire liberation, and as Thirumoolar states in Thirumandiram, "Aasai Arummingal Aasai Arummingal Eesanodu Aayinum Aasai Arummingal" (Cut off desires, cut off desires, even if it is with the Lord, cut off desires), his state of desirelessness is clearly evident to us. Viran Mindar Nayanar was one who possessed the desirelessness that did not even desire the Lord. Therefore, we can see his ability to even declare the Lord as an outsider. Thus, Viran Mindar Nayanar was one of immeasurable greatness. Just as he was attached to the sacred feet of the Lord, he was also attached to true devotees. He showed devotion. Unlike Meipporul Nayanar, this Nayanar showed devotion to true devotees. If one asks whether he did not consider their outward appearance (vedam), one should understand that this Nayanar showed love by considering both the outward appearance and true devotion together. This is the historical note of this Nayanar. Sivakavimani states that since he had the courage to declare Nambi Arurar and the Lord who took him as an outsider, his heart was compassionate towards true devotees and possessed great love. That is why Sekkizhar refers to Viran Mindar Nayanar as "Embirann Emadhu Peruman" (Our Lord, our great one). Furthermore, what kind of person was Viran Mindar Nayanar? Sekkizhar Swamigal's verse states: "Nadhiyum Madhiyum Punaindha Sadai Nambar Virumbi Nalam Sirandha Pathigalengum Kumbittu Padarum Kaadhalin Vazhichchelvaar Mudhirum Anbil Perum Thondar Muraimai Needu Thirukkoottaththu Ethir Mun Paravum Arul Pettrey Iraivar Paadham Thozhappettraar." Viran Mindar Nayanar was one who, out of love, traveled to all the sacred places where Lord Shiva, who wears the Ganga and the crescent moon in His matted hair, lovingly manifests, and worshipped Lord Shiva. And in that manner of worship, he was blessed to first praise the assembly of devotees, who possessed mature love, and only then worship the sacred feet of the Lord. By stating that Viran Mindar Nayanar desired to visit and worship Lord Shiva in all sacred places, Sekkizhar Swamigal highlights the necessity and benefit of undertaking pilgrimages to Shiva temples. Scriptures state that Lord Shiva has no likes or dislikes. However, if one doubts why sacred places are mentioned as places where the Lord lovingly resides and bestows grace, Sivakavimani explains that just as the nectar-like milk, mixed in the blood of a cow and spread everywhere, flows in its udder, so too, though the Lord is present everywhere, He manifests in specific places for specific reasons. Lord Shiva manifested under a white Jamun tree in Thiruvanaikkaval and blessed the elephant. Therefore, even today, He resides there as a dense mass of water. In Vaidheeswaran Kovil, also known as Pulli Irukku Velur, He resides as Vaidyanatha Swamy, curing 4448 diseases, and also as Vaidyanatha Swamy who cures the greatest disease of all, the disease of birth. Thus, Lord Shiva manifests in each sacred place for a specific reason and bestows grace upon living beings. If one asks why one should visit all sacred places when worshipping the Lord in one place is enough, as mentioned above, since the Lord manifests with a unique expression in each sacred place, those who desire specific benefits will find it very beneficial to worship in the respective places. Those who visit and worship in many sacred places will attain all such benefits. Not only that, when performing temple worship, by repeatedly saying "God is here, God is there," one develops the maturity to see that He is everywhere, and this temple worship becomes a cause for that. "Murthi Thalam Theertham Muraiyaai Thodanginarukku Or Vaarthai Solla Satguruuvum Vaaikkum Paraaparame" is the saying of Thayumanavar. To teach the world the benefit and indispensable importance of this pilgrimage, all our great spiritual masters, including Thirugnanasambandha Peruman, Thirunavukkarasu Swamigal, Sundaramurthy Swamigal, and Manikkavasaga Swamigal, visited and worshipped in sacred places, sang hymns, and blessed us with their teachings. The places they visited and showed are still known as "Paadal Petra Sthalams" (temples sung by the poets) and continue to bestow all blessings upon those who visit and worship them according to the rules. If even the supreme Shiva-gnanis and Jivanmuktas like Pattinathadigal followed the path of pilgrimage, as stated in Sivagnana Bodham, "Aalayam Thaanum Aranena Thozhume" (Worship the temple as Shiva Himself), we must understand its greatness and importance and eagerly undertake pilgrimages. Those who undertake pilgrimages should do so with humility and without ostentation, observing true worship. If the practice of pilgrimage and temple worship were carried out properly, the current state of many of our temples lying neglected would not exist. Sivakavimani writes that Viran Mindar Nayanar and our great spiritual masters showed us the good path, and now at least, our people should truly and properly undertake pilgrimages according to the rules and obtain blessings. We will continue to contemplate. Thiruchitrambalam.

Chapter 05 — Viran Mindar Nayanar

Thiruchitrambalam. We are contemplating the purana of Viran Mindar Nayanar in the Thillai Vazh Andanar Sarukkam of Periya Puranam. Viran Mindar Nayanar was one who first worshipped the assembly of devotees and then, secondly, worshipped the Lord. Why should we first worship the devotees? Devotees are those who are accustomed to service. Therefore, they possess the compassion and power to engage those who approach them in similar service and lead them to the Lord. That is why the tradition of first worshipping devotees is celebrated with great distinction in Saivism. When going to worship Thiruvarur, Gnanasambandha Peruman, known as Aludaiya Pillaiyar, Thirunavukkarasu Swamigal, known as Aludaiya Arasugal, and Sundaramurthi Swamigal, known as Aludaiya Nambigal, all greeted and worshipped the assembly of devotees who came to meet them, sang Thiruppathigams, and only then went before the Lord to worship Him. We must consider this method here. It is the word of the wise that even for praising and worshipping devotees, divine grace must precede and gather divine grace. Our Viran Mindar Nayanar not only adopted this practice of first worshipping devotees and then the Lord, but also compelled others to follow this discipline. He possessed the valor (viral) and strength (mindu) for this. Thus, Viran Mindar Nayanar, who performed pilgrimages, visited various holy places in Malainadu, and established the discipline of the Lord's devotees in all places. Then he went to Thiruvarur, where Lord Shiva resides and bestows grace, and worshipped Him. Sekkizhar states in this poem that Lord Shiva in Thiruvarur is the Lord who bent Mount Meru as a bow, ascended the Vedic chariot, and burned the three cities. The history of the Lord burning the three cities is a wonderful history. The form of Tripurantaka taken by the Lord to burn the three cities is a wonderful form. Three asuras named Tharakatchan, Kamalatchan, and Vidyunmali were excellent in their devotion to Shiva. They ruled all worlds from within three forts made of gold, silver, and iron, built by Mayan. These three forts were flying forts. These forts had the power to fly and land wherever these three desired. With the strength of these forts, these three asuras caused suffering to the world. The Devas went to Lord Shiva, worshipped Him, and complained, to which Lord Shiva replied that those three asuras were properly devoted to Him and worshipped Him. It is not right to destroy those who are devoted to us. Therefore, Vishnu took the form of Buddha, created the Pitaka texts, and with the help of Narada Muni, went to the Tripurasuras, disparaged the path of Shiva, glorified Buddhism as superior, and thus deluded the three Tripurasuras and cast them into illusion, as Vishnu, the Mayon. Those Tripurasuras, deluded by Vishnu's illusion, abandoned the path of Shiva, reviled Shiva, and became Buddhists. After that, Vishnu and others went to Lord Shiva, worshipped Him, and submitted that the Tripurasuras were now reviling Shiva. Therefore, they requested Him to destroy them. Now, Lord Shiva decided to destroy those Tripurasuras. To destroy the Tripurasuras, Lord Shiva took Mount Meru as His bow. Mount Meru is unmoving and firm, like a mountain. Being unmoving is a common characteristic of all mountains. However, it applies most specifically to Mount Meru. While Meru itself remains unmoving, all celestial bodies, including the sun, revolve around it, as does the earth. Meru is praised as the golden mountain. Thus, various scriptures, puranas, and yoga texts speak highly of the greatness of Mount Meru. Although it was so powerful, the Lord took it as a bow and bent it. This illustrates the boundless power of the Lord. Among the 64 forms (Ashta-Ashta Murthams) of Lord Shiva, the 20th form is Tripurantaka Murtham. The form taken by the Lord to destroy the three asuras, Tharakatchan, Kamalatchan, and Vidyunmali, who were the sons of Tharakasuran, is the Tripurantaka form. They possessed three flying cities with walls made of gold, silver, and iron. They had received a boon that these cities could move to a desired location once every thousand years. They had also received boons that they would only be destroyed if Lord Shiva Himself struck all three cities simultaneously with a single arrow. Therefore, as we saw earlier, Lord Shiva, who decided to destroy these three asuras, called Thirunandi Devar and commanded him to go to the Devas and order them to prepare chariots and other war instruments for the destruction of the three cities. Accordingly, Thirunandi Devar issued the command to the Devas. In the same way, all the Devas, including Vishnu, together created the chariot and other instruments for Lord Shiva. In that magnificent chariot, the Mandara and Kesari mountains served as the axles. The sun and moon were the wheels. The seasons were the joints, the 14 worlds were the 14 platforms of the chariot, the sky was the seat, the Udaya and Asta mountains were the flagstaffs, rivers and streams were the flying banners, the stars were the beautiful canopy, the realm of liberation was the upper covering, the yagnas were the framework, the three periods of time (day, night, and twilight) were the wooden parts for pouring oil, the eight mountains were the pillars, the eight elephants of the directions supported it in the middle, the seven oceans were the curtains, the jnanendriyas (organs of perception) and karmendriyas (organs of action) were the ornaments, the arts were the pegs, the puranas, vedangas, shastras, and mantras were the jewels, and the Marudus were the steps. Thus, the Devas prepared a divine chariot. The four horses of this divine chariot were the Vedas themselves. Brahma Deva was the charioteer. Pranava was the goad he used to urge the horses. Ganga, Aditi, and other divine maidens fanned Him from all four sides. Thumburu and Narada sang music. Rambha and other celestial dancers performed. As mentioned earlier, the magnificent Mount Meru served as the bow. Vasuki, the serpent, was the bowstring. Goddess Saraswati was the bell tied to the bow, Vishnu was the arrow, Agni Deva was the sharp tip of the arrow, and Vayu Bhagavan was the feather attached to the arrow. The Devas reached Thirukailaya Giri, worshipped Thirunandi Devar, and prayed that the chariot and instruments were ready for the Lord. Lord Shiva, listening to the prayer of the Devas, arrived at the chariot with His consort Uma Devi, mounted on the bull. At the request of the Devas, Lord Shiva placed His sacred feet on that divine chariot, which was thus prepared. At that moment, the axle of the chariot broke. Immediately, Vishnu took the form of a bull and, by the grace of Lord Shiva, supported Lord Shiva. Brahma Deva understood the reason for the chariot's broken axle. He realized that starting this task without worshipping Lord Ganesha was the reason for the broken axle. Brahma Deva worshipped Lord Ganesha. By His grace, by the grace of Lord Ganesha, the chariot became as it was before. Now, Lord Shiva ascended this divine chariot with the Goddess. Lord Ganesha, the elder son, Lord Subramanya, the younger son, Vishnu, Indra, and all other Devas surrounded Him, riding on their respective vehicles. The thirty-three crores of Devas surrounded Him from all sides. Thirunandi Devar went ahead with a golden staff. Bhanukampana, Vanana, Shankuganana, and other Shiva Gananathas played musical instruments as they went. Lord Shiva, mounted on the chariot, approached the three cities. Now all the Devas worshipped Lord Shiva and prayed, "O Lord, you must bend the bow and shoot the arrow." Lord Shiva took the bow, which was Mount Meru, held in His sacred hand, bent it, and strung Vasuki as the bowstring. Now the Devas, the immortals, became arrogant, thinking that Lord Shiva was going to destroy the Tripurasuras with the chariot they had created and the bow and arrow they had provided. Lord Shiva, knowing the arrogance of all the Devas, and considering their ignorance and arrogance, looked at Goddess Parvati, who was nearby, with the corner of His eye and smiled slightly. He smiled a little. By this smile alone, the three cities caught fire, burned, and turned to ashes. Earlier, Vishnu, in the form of Buddha, went to these three cities with Narada and deluded the Tripurasuras and all other asuras, diverting them from Shiva worship and making them follow Buddhism, didn't he? Three devotees of Shiva who were not deluded by Vishnu's illusion in the form of Buddha lived in these three cities. They continued to perform Shiva worship without being swayed by the teachings preached by Vishnu in the form of Buddha. Therefore, when the three cities caught fire and burned, these three devotees, who had always contemplated Shiva, escaped the burning of the three cities without any harm and reached Lord Shiva. These three Shiva devotees were named Sudhaman, Susheelan, and Subuddhi. Lord Shiva, the God with the eye on His forehead, granted two of these three the grace to be His doorkeepers. The third Shiva devotee was made Kudamuzha Nandi, who played the drum for the Lord's divine dance. Sudhaman and Susheelan became the doorkeepers for the Lord. We now see them as Dindi and Mundi, the doorkeepers in Shiva temples. Subuddhi, the Shiva devotee, received the blessing of playing the drum for the Lord's divine dance. After the burning of the three cities, Lord Shiva ascended Mount Kailash. He sent the Devas back to their respective worlds. Thus, Lord Shiva, by His smile, burned the three cities to relieve the suffering of the Devas. Therefore, He received the sacred name Tripurantaka Murthi. The place where the Lord performed this burning of the three cities is Thiruvathisai Veerattanam, and the tradition of the Lord ascending the chariot for the burning of the three cities serves as the basis for the Lord's procession in a chariot during temple festivals in Shiva temples today, as we have already seen in Periya Puranam. All the Puranas, Thevaram, and Thiruvasagam celebrate this burning of the three cities by the Lord. In Thiruvasagam, Manikkavasagar praises this burning of the three cities in various ways in the section called Thiruvundiyar. "The bow was bent, the battle ensued, the three cities were distressed, Udi Para, how they burned together, Udi Para. We did not find compassion, Udi Para, in the hand of Ekambar, Udi Para, one great excess, Udi Para. When the carpenter let go, and they put their feet down, Udi Para, the axle broke, Udi Para, the three cities were destroyed, Udi Para. To the one who could save three, Udi Para, to the one who could shoot, Udi Para, to the one with the young breast as a part, Udi Para," thus Manikkavasagar marvels at this divine play of the Lord's burning of the three cities in many verses of Thiruvundiyar. But what is the greatness of Thiruvarur? The unique specialty of Thiruvarur is that the Lord resided in Thiruvarur even before He ascended the chariot to burn the three cities. The Thiruththadagam "Puram Eritha Munnum Pinnum Thiruvarur Koyila Konda Naale" confirms this. "Praise be to Shiva who burned the cities of His enemies, praise be to Thirumoolattanane, praise be to Shiva who burned the fort with His bow that day, praise be to Thirumoolattanane," and other Thiruvarur Thiruththadagams show Appar Swamigal praising that the Shiva who burned the cities resides in Thirumoolattanam in Thiruvarur. To such a glorious Thiruvarur, our Viran Mindar Nayanar arrives. Let us continue to contemplate. Thiruchitrambalam.

Chapter 06 — Viran Mindar Nayanar

Thiruchitrambalam. In the Periya Puranam, in the Thillai Vaazh Andhanar Sarukkam, we are contemplating the Purana of Viran Mindar Nayanar. Viran Mindar Nayanar was one who had the quality of first worshipping the devotees in all sacred places and then worshipping the Lord. He arrives in Thiruvarur. In the Devasraya Mandapam of the Thiruvarur temple, Shiva's devotees, who always wear sacred ash, rudraksha, and chant the Panchakshara mantra, are abundant. We have already seen this explained in detail in the section on the greatness of the holy assembly. Sacred ash, rudraksha, and the Panchakshara mantra are the instruments of Shiva. Lord Shiva uses these instruments to bring souls under His control. Just as a thief, by means of mantras, stratagems, and medicines, brings a very wealthy person under his control and robs his wealth, so too Lord Shiva, by means of the medicine of sacred ash, the mantra of Sri Panchakshara, and the stratagem of His own form, distinguishes us, the souls, brings us under His control, and seizes our karmas. "Kallarodu Illam Udaiyaar Kalandhidil Vellaveliyām Endru Undhi Para Veedu Ezhidhaam Endru Undhi Para" is the 23rd verse of Thiruvundhiyar. Here, Sivakavimani compares the Lord to thieves and the act of the Lord taking control to the act of thievery. This is because the Lord is a thief who steals hearts. Doesn't Thirugnanasambandha Peruman call the Lord "Ullam Kavar Kallvane" (O thief who steals hearts)? Doesn't even the Sri Rudram in the Vedas refer to Lord Shiva as "Thaskaraanaam Pathaye Namo Nama" (Salutations to the Lord of thieves)? Thus, with all the devotees of Shiva, who wear sacred ash, rudraksha, and chant Sri Panchakshara, filling the Devasraya Mandapam, Sundaramurthy Swamigal, according to his daily practice of going to the Poongoyil (flower temple) in Thiruvarur to worship the Lord, one day, as he was going to the Poongoyil, he entered the temple, contemplating the sacred feet of the Lord and thinking, "When will be the day I become a servant to the devotees residing in this Devasraya Mandapam?" The Lord, accepting Sundaramurthy Swamigal's request, appeared directly at the entrance, gave him a counter-vision, explained the greatness of the devotees to Sundaramurthy Swamigal, and gave him the first line, "Thillai Vaazh Andhanar Tham Adiyaarkkum Adiyen," instructing him to sing the greatness of the devotees. Accordingly, Sundaramurthy Swamigal sang the Thiruthondathogai, praising each of these devotees individually, and joined the midst of this holy assembly. We have already contemplated this history in the Thaduthaatkonnda Purana. In the historical events of this story, Sekkizhar now narrates the incident where Viran Mindar Nayanar became angry when Sundaramurthy Swamigal entered the temple. Sundaramurthy Swamigal, mentally worshipping these Shiva devotees and praying to the Lord, "When will be the day I become a servant to these Shiva devotees?", entered the temple directly. Viran Mindar Nayanar, who was inside the Devasraya Mandapam, noticed this. Viran Mindar Nayanar was one who had the quality and ability to first worship the devotees and then worship the Lord. Therefore, Viran Mindar Nayanar noticed Sundaramurthy Swamigal going directly into the temple without praising the devotees residing in the Devasraya Mandapam. Because of this, Viran Mindar Nayanar became angry with Sundaramurthy Swamigal. Even though Sundaramurthy Swamigal did not outwardly worship the Shiva devotees with his body, he entered, mentally worshipping them and thinking, "When will be the day I become a servant to these devotees?" Therefore, the intention of both Sundaramurthy Swamigal and Viran Mindar Nayanar was to worship the devotees. However,

Sundaramurthy Swamigal did not perform outward worship, meaning physical worship, to the devotees. Therefore, Viran Mindar Nayanar became angry with Sundaramurthy Swamigal. The actions of both these Nayanars occur according to the divine will of Lord Shiva. The Lord, who was present within both of them as life to life, fulfilled the intentions of both and revealed the greatness of the devotees' sacred service for the salvation of the world. Therefore, Viran Mindar Nayanar, realizing that Sundaramurthy Swamigal was going without worshipping the devotees, became angry and declared Sundaramurthy, the stubborn devotee who went directly into the temple without worshipping the devotees, to be an outsider to the Saiva religion. Not only that, Viran Mindar Nayanar also declared Lord Shiva, who had taken control of this stubborn devotee Sundaramurthy, to be an outsider. Sekkizhar Swamigal praises Viran Mindar Nayanar for receiving such a great blessing, by the grace of Lord Shiva, to thus declare both the devotee and the Lord as outsiders. Sekkizhar Swamigal marvels and praises, "Who else but Viran Mindar Nayanar has received such a great blessing?" Viran Mindar Nayanar thus declared both Sundaramurthy Swamigal and Lord Shiva, who had taken control of him, as outsiders. It was this Viran Mindar Nayanar who received the grace of both of them. Sekkizhar marvels at this, asking, "Who else has this greatness?" We have already seen that Viran Mindar Nayanar spoke thus by the grace of Lord Shiva. Now Sekkizhar Swamigal states that Viran Mindar Nayanar also received the grace of Sundaramurthy Swamigal. How is this so? In the Thiruthondathogai composed by Sundaramurthy Swamigal, he places Viran Mindar Nayanar within the hymn, saying, "Viri Pozhil Suzhl Kundraiyaar Viranmindarkku Adiyen" (I am a servant to Viran Mindar of Kundrai, surrounded by expansive groves), and worships Viran Mindar Nayanar. Therefore, Viran Mindar Nayanar receives unwavering grace from both Lord Shiva and Sundaramurthy Swamigal. That is why Sekkizhar marvels at the greatness of Viran Mindar Nayanar, who received divine grace from both Lord Shiva, whom he had outwardly declared an outsider, and Sundaramurthy Swamigal, who was a devotee of Lord Shiva. If one asks whether it was appropriate for Viran Mindar Nayanar to declare the Lord as an outsider, Sivakavimani explains that it was spoken due to the firmness of his devotion to the devotees. Thus, to show the world through Viran Mindar Nayanar that there are also devotees who are firm and capable in their devotion to devotees, the Lord willed that such words should come from Viran Mindar Nayanar's sacred mouth. That is why Viran Mindar Nayanar received the grace to even declare the Lord as an outsider. Sekkizhar Swamigal sings, "For the world to be saved, for us to be saved, for the excellence of the good Saiva path to be saved, when Nambigal first sang the Thiruthondathogai, and when Lord Shiva, who is difficult for the rich Vedas to understand, said, 'We are with the devotees,' who can know the greatness of the Lord's devotees?" Because the Thiruthondathogai thus came into being, the devotees sung in the Thiruthondathogai are praised by all of us for all time, and thereby, we have an opportunity to attain salvation. Saivism upholds the Thiruthondathogai as a daily recitation. Therefore, by daily reciting the sacred names and greatness of these devotees through this Thiruthondathogai, Viran Mindar Nayanar and Sundaramurthy Swamigal become the cause for us to receive the divine grace of the devotees and the Lord. We, the followers of Saiva Siddhanta, who worship and follow Sundaramurthy Swamigal in the tradition of the great spiritual masters, listen to and contemplate this Periya Puranam, which is an extensive work based on Sundaramurthy Swamigal's collection, and thereby all of us attain salvation. The benefit of a guru's teaching first accrues to the lineage that follows him as their guru. Therefore, the benefit of salvation, which is the fruit of this Thiruthondathogai, first accrues to the Saiva Siddhantins. Through them, it accrues to the world. Thus, the Saiva tradition of "for us, the Saiva Siddhantins, to be saved, and then for the world to be saved" is established here. It is the good Saiva path that one should not only enjoy oneself but also wish for the world to enjoy. It is the Saiva tradition. That is why Sekkizhar sings here that this world is saved by the Saiva Siddhanta tradition. "Naan Pettra Inbam Peruga Ivvaiyagam" (May the joy I received spread throughout the world) is from Thirumoolar's Thirumandiram. "Aazhga Theeyadhu Ellaam Aran Naamame Soozhga Vaiyagamum Thuyar Theerkkave" (May all evil sink, may the name of Hara pervade, and may the world's suffering be removed) is from Thirugnanasambandha Peruman's sacred hymn. "Manrilār Adiyār Avar Vaan Pugazh Nindradhu Engu Nilavi Ulagelaam" (The fame of the devotees in the assembly spread throughout the world) is from Periya Puranam. Thus, to bless the flourishing of Saiva Siddhanta and thereby the flourishing of the world is a unique tradition of Saivism. When Viran Mindar Nayanar thus declared both as outsiders, Sundaramurthy Swamigal composed the Thiruthondathogai, a hymn praising the devotees. Afterwards, Lord Shiva also declared, "We are among the devotees," and that, as Viran Mindar had said, He was not an outsider to the devotees. The Lord thus stating that He is with the devotees signifies the advaitic nature of the Lord, who is mingled with the devotees. This state of the Lord being thus advaitically mingled is only for the devotees. If one asks whether this quality is also for others, one must say no. The Lord will only be advaitically mingled with the devotees. He will openly be with the devotees. He will speak the words of the devotees as His own words. He will perform the actions of the devotees as His own actions. He will make the senses of the devotees His own divine senses. Thus, by this quality of being mingled with the devotees, the Lord is with the devotees. Not only that, by giving the first line, "Thillai Vaazh Andhanar Tham Adiyaarkkum Adiyen," the Lord is with the devotees. We should note here that the Lord is one of the Thillai Vaazh Andhanars and that He gives the line saying He is their servant. Sundaramurthy Swamigal thus sang the Thiruthondathogai, and after Sundaramurthy Swamigal sang the Thiruthondathogai, Viran Mindar Nayanar, who had earlier declared Sundaramurthy Swamigal an outsider, now says that Sundaramurthy Swamigal is with the devotees. Sekkizhar Swamigal composes this verse here: "Gnaalam Uyyya Naam Uyyya Nambi Saiva Nanneriyin Seelam Uyyya Thiruthondathogai Mun Paada Sezhumaraigal Olamidavum Unarvu Ariyaar Udanām Ulaththu Endraal Aalam Amudhu Seydha Piraan Adiyaar Perumai Arindhaarār" (For the world to be saved, for us to be saved, for the excellence of Nambi's good Saiva path to be saved, when the Thiruthondathogai was first sung, and when the Lord, who is difficult for the rich Vedas to understand, said, "We are with the devotees," who can know the greatness of the Lord who consumed poison and made it nectar?). Here, Sekkizhar refers to Lord Shiva as the Lord who consumed poison and made it nectar. This is because Sekkizhar composes it this way to indicate that the Lord, the benevolent one, used the harsh word "outsider" spoken by Viran Mindar Nayanar to bring forth the Thiruthondathogai and the divine words "We are with the devotees." It is also implied here that Viran Mindar Nayanar, just as the Lord made poison into nectar, had the greatness of making Nambigal, who was called an outsider, into a great devotee and a guru who presented the Thiruthondathogai for the salvation of the country. Similarly, Viran Mindar Nayanar lived for a long time in this world, protecting the Saiva path, which is a state endowed with all noble qualities, and performing sacred service. Afterwards, Viran Mindar Nayanar, in a manner befitting his sacred service, attained the status of a chief among Shiva's ganas and shone under the sacred feet of the Lord. The extent of my ability to narrate the greatness of our leader, Viran Mindar Nayanar, who was instrumental in the world receiving the great blessing of the Thiruthondathogai, is beyond my capacity. Therefore, Sekkizhar Swamigal, placing the sacred feet of our Viran Mindar Nayanar, who possesses such immeasurable greatness, on his head and with their support, states that he will narrate the qualities and history of the sacred service of Amarneethi Nayanar, the merchant from Pazhayarai, and thus concludes the Purana of Viran Mindar Nayanar and begins the Purana of Amarneethi Nayanar. We will continue to contemplate. Thiruchitrambalam.
