Chapter 01 — Pugazh Chozha Nayanar

Thiruchitrambalam. Periyapuranam, Part 968, composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. The Puranam of Pugazh Chozha Nayanar from the Poiyadimai Illatha Pulavar Sarukkam. In the Periyapuranam, which is the Thiruththondar Puranam, the Puranam of Pugazh Chozha Nayanar is the 41st sacred Puranam, following the Puranam of Poiyadimai Illatha Pulavar. Within the Poiyadimai Illatha Pulavar Sarukkam, which is the eighth section, the Puranam of Pugazh Chozha Nayanar is the second Puranam. In the seventh sacred verse of the Thiruththondar Thogai, a collection of verses composed by Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, Sundaramoorthy Swamigal praises, "Puzhil Karuvoor Thunjia Pugazh Chozharkku Adiyen," meaning, "I am a servant to Pugazh Chozhar who passed away in Karuvoor surrounded by groves." The word "Thunjuthal" signifies the cessation of life. It is customary to refer to death as "thoonguthal" (sleeping) as an auspicious euphemism. We see this in phrases like "Chozhan Kulamutraththu Thunjia Killivalavan" and "Pandiyan Velliyambalaththu Thunjia Peruvazhuthi." This Nayanar, Pugazh Chozha Nayanar, gained greatness due to the special nature of his passing. Thus, this sacred Puranam arose from that tradition. Therefore, Sundaramoorthy Swamigal sang, "Puzhil Karuvoor Thunjia Pugazh Chozharkku Adiyen." The act of Pugazh Chozha Nayanar, holding the matted lock of hair in a golden vessel and entering the fire to pass away, is the extraordinary act of his sacred devotion. Hence, he is praised in this manner. We shall examine the details of this history in this Puranam. Thus, the Thiruththondar Thogai praises this Nayanar. Now, in the Thiruththondar Thiruvandathi, a type of work composed by Nambiyandar Nambigal, the 50th sacred verse praises Pugazh Chozha Nayanar. That sacred verse is as follows: "Pulamanniya Mannanai Singala Naadu Podipathutha Kulamanniya Pugazh Kokkanaganathan Kulamuthalon Nalamanniya Pugazh Chozhanathu Enbar Nagusudar Vaal Valamanniya Eribaththanukku Eenthar Vanpugazhe." This sacred verse means that Pugazh Chozha Nayanar possessed the unparalleled generosity of giving his sword to Eribaththa Nayanar and asking him to kill him as well. We have contemplated this history in the sacred Puranam of Eribaththa Nayanar. Such a Nayanar, he was the first descendant in the Chozha lineage of Kokkanaganathan, who possessed the fame of the Chozha dynasty, which conquered and crushed the country of Lanka, ruled by a king from foreign lands. We know the history of the Chozhas conquering and subjugating Lanka, which is also known as Eelam or Sri Lanka. The name Kokkanaganathan, a Chozha king who conquered it, is mentioned in this sacred verse. This Chozha is believed to be Aditya Chozha. Thus, this type of work praises Pugazh Chozha Nayanar. Now, in the Periyapuranam, which is the extensive work of Thiruththondar Puranam, the Puranam of Pugazh Chozha Nayanar is situated. The divine Sekkizhar Peruman describes the Puranam of Pugazh Chozha Nayanar in 41 sacred verses. The first sacred verse is: "Kulagiriyin Kodumudi Mel Kodi Vengai Kuri Ezhuthi Nilavutharu Mathikkodaikkeezh Nedunilam Kaaththu Inithu Alikkum Malarpugazh Vandamil Chozhar Valanaattu Mamuthur Ulakil Valar Anikku Ellam Ul Uraiyuram Uraiyur." This sacred verse means that the Chozhas inscribed their tiger emblem, the Vengai flag, on the peak of the Himalayas, which is called Kulagiri. There is a tradition of referring to the Himalayas as Ponmalai (golden mountain), Kulagiri, Meru, and Mandiram. The Chozhas' rule extended up to the Himalayas. The history speaks of the Chozhas subjugating all the land up to the Himalayas and, as a symbol of this, inscribing the Vengai emblem on the peak of the Himalayas. The divine Sekkizhar Peruman begins this Puranam of Pugazh Chozha Nayanar, who came from such a Chozha lineage, by describing the ancient history, the country, and the city of the Chozhas in this sacred verse. This is the poetic structure of the divine Sekkizhar Peruman.

We have been continuously observing this. The prosperous Chozha country, ruled by Tamil kings who possessed fame and generosity, protected this vast world under the shade of their full-moon-like white umbrella, ensuring the flourishing of happiness. In that country, there is an ancient city called Uraiyur, which is said to be the inner essence of all the beauties that flourish in the world. It has been the capital of the Chozhas. Uraiyur is currently a part of Trichy. Like Kaveripoompattinam, Uraiyur is a very ancient and venerable city. It is a city that is considered to be the inner essence of all auspicious things in the world, as if all the auspicious things in the world should be arranged in this city. "Oor enappaduvathu Uraiyur" (The city is Uraiyur) is a famous saying praised in ancient Tamil texts. The second sacred verse is: "Alavil Perum Pugazh Nagaram Athanil Animani Vilakkum Ilaveyilin Sudar Padalai Iravu Ozhiya Erippanavai Kilaroli Ser Neduvana Periyaatruk Kodugezhuvum Valar Oli Maaligai Niraigal Marungu Udaiya Marugu Ellam." In the first seven verses, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman describes the glories of Thirumookkeeswaram, known as Uraiyur, and its urban prosperity. In that context, the second sacred verse explains the beauty and prosperity of Thirumookkeeswaram, known as Uraiyur. In this great city of immeasurable fame, clusters of beautiful jewel-like lights, resembling the glow of young sunlight, shine so brightly that they dispel the night. Rows of luminous mansions, resembling banners in the great Ganges river in the vast sky, line the streets of Uraiyur. The meaning here is that the light from the jewels in Uraiyur, when cast upon the rows of mansions, and their reflections seen in the celestial Ganges, appeared like long banners. The third and fourth sacred verses are: "Nagaththalaththum Pilaththum Naanilaththum Nalam Sirantha Bogam Anaiththinuikkum Uruppam Poruvirandha Valaththinavai Maaga Nirainthida Malindha Varambil Pal Porul Pirangum Aagaram Otthu Ula Alavil Aavana Veethigal Ellam. Paar Nanaiya Matham Pozhinthu Pani Visumbu Kola Muzhangum Por Muga Vem Kariyadiyum Padai Inam Endru Adaiya Varum Sor Mazhaiyin Vidu Mathaththuch Sudaru Nedu Min Odai Kar Mugilum Pala Theriya Kalitru Nirai Kalan Ellam." This city shines with unparalleled prosperity, serving as the source of all excellent enjoyments in the celestial world, the netherworld, and the terrestrial world. Like a treasure trove filled with countless varieties of goods piled up to the sky, this city has innumerable market streets. Everywhere in this city, there are mighty elephants, pouring out ichor that drenches the earth and trumpeting so loudly that their sound fills the cool sky, as if they are ready for war. The elephant stables are filled with rows of elephants. The fifth sacred verse is: "Padumaniyum Parichcherukkum Oli Kilarap Payil Puravi Nedunirai Mun Pullun Vay Neer Tharangam Nurai Nivappa Vidu Sudar Mey Urai Adukkal Mugil Padiya Vilanguthalal Thodu Kadalgal Anaiya Pala Thuranga Saalaigal Ellam." The divine Sekkizhar Peruman, who sang about the glory of elephant herds in the first verse, sings about the glory of the cavalry in this sacred verse. The clanging bells and the neighing of the horses make a great noise. In the long rows of horses, as they eat grass, foam rises from their mouths. Many horse stables appear like oceans. Just as foam rises on the ocean, the foam from the mouths of the horses in the stables makes them appear like oceans. The sound of the bells on the horses' necks is like the sound of the ocean. The sixth sacred verse is:

"Thulaikkai Airavathak Kalirum Thuranga Arasam Thiruvum Vilaiththa Amuthum Tharuvum Vizhumaniyum Kodupotha Uzhaiththa Kadal Ivattril Ondru Pera Vendi Umbaroor Valaiththathu Pondru Ulathu Angan Mathil Suzhntha Malarkkidangu." In this sacred verse, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman explains the glory of the moat, stating that the moat filled with flowers surrounding the ramparts of Uraiyur is like the Milk Ocean, which, having been distressed when the gods took away Airavata, the elephant with a trunk, Uchchaisravas, the king of horses, Lakshmi, the nectar churned from it, the Kalpaka tree, and the Chintamani gem, desired to regain at least one of them and thus encircled the world of the gods. The seventh sacred verse is: "Kaarerum Gopurangal Kathirerum Malarcholai Thererum Aniveethi Thisaiyerum Vasaiyillani Vaareru Mulai Madavar Marungerum Malarkkanai Van Paarerum Pugazh Urainthaip Pathiyin Valam Pagavarithal." It is very difficult, not easy, to describe the prosperity of Uraiyur, a place whose fame spreads throughout the world, which has gopurams that clouds climb, flower gardens where both sun and moon rise, beautiful streets where chariots roam, and flawless beauties whose fame spreads in all directions, and where the flower arrows of women with rising breasts are effective. Thus, in the seven sacred verses composed so far, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman has sung about the urban prosperity of Thirumookkeeswaram, known as Uraiyur. We shall continue to contemplate. Thiruchitrambalam.

Chapter 02 — Pugazh Chozha Nayanar

Thiruchitrambalam. Periyapuranam, Part 969, composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. The Puranam of Pugazh Chozha Nayanar from the Poiyadimai Illatha Pulavar Sarukkam. The eighth sacred verse: "An Nagaril Paar Alikkum Adal Arasar Aagindraar Mannum Thiruththillai Nagar Mani Veethi Ani Vilakkum Senni Needu Anapayan Thirukkulaththu Vazhi Muthalaa Ponni Nathi Puravalanara Pugazh Chozhar Ena Polivaar." In that city, the powerful kings who rule the earth are those Chozhas who adorn the beautiful streets of Thiruththillai (Chidambaram) and are descendants of the noble lineage of Anapaya Chozha, shining forth as the protectors of the Ponni River (Kaveri), known as Pugazh Chozhar. Here, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman praises Anapaya Chozha, who had the greatness of having this Thiruththondar Puranam composed. This is one of the 11 places in Periyapuranam where Anapaya Chozha is praised for his greatness. It is a tradition to praise the predecessors of kings based on the greatness of the later kings. This tradition is based on the principle of inference, where what is seen (the greatness of later kings) is used to infer what is not seen (the greatness of their predecessors). Thus, Pugazh Chozhar, who protects the Chozha country enriched by the Kaveri River, shines forth with that name. He rules the world from Uraiyur as his capital. The ninth sacred verse: "Oru Kudaikkeezh Manmagalai Urimaiyinil Manam Punarnthu Paruvarai Thol Vetriyinaal Paar Mannar Panikkeerpa Thirumalaraththum Peru Ulakum Sengolin Murai Nirpa Arumarai Saivam Thazhaippa Arasu Alikkum An Naalil." In those days, Pugazh Chozha Nayanar, who ruled the earth under his single umbrella, having married the Earth Goddess as his rightful spouse, and whose mountain-like shoulders brought victory, made all the hostile kings of the world obey his commands. It is a glory for crowned kings to bring the entire land under their rule, as if marrying the Earth Goddess as their rightful spouse, under a single umbrella. This is referred to as "Eka Chakraadhipathyam" in Sanskrit. Saying that he married the Earth Goddess as his rightful spouse is a metaphorical way of saying that this entire world came under his dominion. Thus, he ruled, making the great world, prosperous with wealth, abide by the laws of his just scepter, and moreover, he ruled so that the rare Vaidika Saivam (Vedic Shaivism) flourished. Vaidika Saivam is the Shaiva path that is connected to the Vedic tradition. The tenth sacred verse is: "Pirai Valarum Senjadaiyaar Penum Sivaalayam Ellam Nirai Perum Poosanai Vilanga Needu Thiruththondar Thamakkurai Irandhu Venduvan Kuripin Vazhi Koduththaruli Murai Purinthu Thiruneetru Muthal Neriyee Paalippaar." Pugazh Chozha Nayanar ensured that all the Shiva temples, where Lord Shiva with the crescent moon in his red matted hair is worshipped, flourished with abundant great worship. He also served the devotees (Thiruththondar) by granting their requests according to their wishes. He thus maintained the primary path of Thiruneeru (sacred ash), which is the path of Shiva. Ensuring that Shiva temples flourished with abundant great worship and granting the requests of devotees according to their wishes are ways of worshipping the Lord and His devotees. This is the path of maintaining the Thiruneetru Neriyana Sivaneeriyin. Thus, the king protected the primary path of Thiruneeru. The eleventh sacred verse is: "Angan Initha Uraiyurum Naal Arasu Irainja Veetrirunthu Kongarodu Kudapulaththu Ko Mannar Thirai Konara Thangal Kula Marabin Muthal Thani Nagaram Karuvooril Mangala Naal Arasu Urimai Sutramudan Vanthu Anainthaar." While ruling from Uraiyur, Pugazh Chozha Nayanar arrived at Karuvoor, one of his capitals, on an auspicious day, accompanied by his royal retinue, including ministers and army commanders. Kings from Kongu Nadu and the western regions came to pay homage to Pugazh Chozha Nayanar and offer tribute. The minor kings ruling Kongu Nadu and the petty chieftains ruling the western regions were accustomed and obligated to pay tribute to the emperor. This was the custom of imperial rule. It was customary for emperors to establish capitals in various places and rule from there to receive tribute from the kings of various countries under their rule. Thus, he arrived at Karuvoor, which is one of the five capitals where the Chozhas were crowned. The emperor arrived there for royal duties. Therefore, he arrived on an auspicious day. This day was also destined for him to attain the eternal auspiciousness of Shiva. Ministers, army commanders, and other royal kinsmen also arrived. The twelfth sacred verse is: "Vanthu Manimathil Karuvoor Marungu Anaiyvaar Vaanavar Suzha Indiran Vanthu Amarapuriyai Eithuvaan Ena Eithi Sinthai Kali Koorndhu Aranar Magizh Thiru Aanilai Koyil Munthura Vanthu Anainthu Irainchi Moy Oli Maaligai Pugunthaar." Pugazh Chozha Nayanar and his royal retinue, including ministers, arriving at Karuvoor, was like Indra, surrounded by gods, arriving at Amaravati. This is a simile for the royal procession and the retinue. However, our Nayanmars, the great devotees, rejected even the life of Indra. Therefore, Indra and other gods cannot be compared to our great devotees in any way. Upon arriving at Karuvoor, Pugazh Chozha Nayanar first went to worship at the Thirukkaruvoor Aanilai temple. The tradition of devotion is shown here, where he first went to the temple to worship Lord Pasupathinathar Aanilaiyappar, and then entered his palace. This indicates that devotion comes first, and then kingship. The thirteenth sacred verse is: "Maaligai Mun Atthani Mandapaththin Manipunnai Pon Kolarri Aasanaththu Irunthu Kudapula Mannavar Konarntha Oli Nedum Kalittrin Ani Uzhappil Pari Thulai Kanakam Neenidaivil Vilagu Mani Muthal Niraiyum Thirai Kandaar." Seated on a golden throne adorned with jewels in the royal court (atthani mandapam) in front of the palace, he beheld the tribute brought by the kings of the western regions. He observed the tribute, which included rows of large elephants, countless rows of horses, heaps of gold, and long-shining jewels. The fourteenth sacred verse is: "Thirai Konarntha Arasarkku Seyal Urimai Thozhil Aruli Murai Puriyum Thani Thigiri Murai Nilla Muran Arasar Urai Aranam Ulavaagil Therinthu Urappeer Ena Unarvu Needu Amaicharkku Mozhintharuli Nigazhum Naal." He bestowed upon the kings who had brought tribute the right to rule their territories, ensuring that they would govern without fear and with independence, under the protection of his command. This was the custom of Tamil emperors in ancient times. We also learn from history that later Muslim and British invaders adopted this practice. If there were rebellious kings who did not abide by the unique rule of this emperor, they would be identified and either brought under his rule or conquered through war, and their territories would be annexed to his kingdom. Therefore, here too, Pugazh Chozha Nayanar, as mentioned earlier, commanded the kings who had submitted and paid tribute to continue exercising their right to rule their respective kingdoms. He also commanded his wise ministers to inform him if there were any fortified places where rebellious kings, who did not submit to his unique rule, were hiding. Thus, in the days that followed, the sacred history that we contemplated in the Thirupuranam of Eribaththa Nayanar took place. Since that was the Thirupuranam of Eribaththa Nayanar, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman described that history in great detail there. Here, since this is the Puranam of Pugazh Chozha Nayanar, he briefly narrates the same sacred history in the fifteenth sacred verse, in a manner appropriate to this Puranam. The fifteenth sacred verse is: "Senjadai Sivakaamiyar Konar Thiruppalli Thaamam Andru Sitharum Kalittrai Ara Erinthu Paagaraiyum Kondra Eribaththar Ethir Enaiyum Kondarulum Ena Vendri Vadivaal Koduththu Thiruththondil Miga Siranthaar." This sacred verse describes that while Pugazh Chozha Nayanar was thus seated in Karuvoor, he went before Eribaththa Nayanar, who had killed the royal elephant that had scattered the sacred flowers brought by the devotee Sivakamiandar, and also killed its mahouts. Pugazh Chozha Nayanar offered his sword to Eribaththa Nayanar, saying, "This is not enough for the offense committed by the elephant; please kill me with this sword as well." Thus, he excelled greatly in his devotion. It is also noted here that Pugazh Chozha Nayanar's sword not only conquered enemies but also helped him achieve victory in his devotion through this act of offering his sword. Now, the sixteenth sacred verse is: "Vilangu Thiru Mathikkodaikkeezh Veetrirunthu Paar Alikkum Thulangu Oli Neen Mudiyarkku Thonmuraimai Neri Amaichchar Alandha Thirai Murai Konara Arasan Ulan Oruvan Ena Ulam Kollum Vagai Uraippa Uruviya Paal Muruvalippaar." The ministers came and informed Pugazh Chozha Nayanar, the king with a radiant long crown who ruled the world under a shining white umbrella, that there was a king who had not brought the tribute in the customary manner, as per his command. Hearing this, Pugazh Chozha Nayanar smiled faintly with great surprise. The seventeenth sacred verse is: "Aangavan Yaar Endru Arula Athigan Avan Aniththaaga Ongu Eyil Suzhntha Malai Aranaththul Uraivaan Ena Uraippa Eengu Numakku Ethir Nirkum Aran Ullatho Padai Ezhuntha Appaangu Aranam Thugalaaga Pattraruppeer Ena Pagarnthaar." Pugazh Chozha Nayanar asked who that king was who had not paid tribute. The ministers replied that he was Athigan, a petty chieftain who resided in a mountain fortress surrounded by high walls nearby. Athigan is his name. There is reason to believe that he belonged to the lineage mentioned in ancient Tamil texts like Purananuru, such as Athiyaman Neduman Anji. These petty chieftains ruled the eastern parts of Kongu Nadu. Their capital was Thagadur, which is now known as Dharmapuri, located in the eastern part of Kongu Nadu. Kolli Hills and Kuthirai Hills served as a fortress for them. That is why they are referred to as mountain fortresses in this verse. Purananuru states that Athiyaman Neduman Anji was unsubmissive to the great crowned kings and fought against the seven kings, including the Chera, Chozha, and Pandya kings. His city and mountains might have been close to Karuvoor, the capital of the Chozhas. It is known that Nedunjadaiyan, a Pandya king, defeated Athiyaman in battle at two places, Ayilur and Pugazhur. We learn that these two places, Ayilur and Pugazhur, are near Karuvoor. Therefore, the area where Athigan resides, as mentioned by the ministers, is the region where Thagadur, Kolli Hills, and Kuthirai Hills are located, which served as his fortresses. Thus, when the ministers spoke, Pugazh Chozha Nayanar commanded, "Is there a fortress that can stand against us here? Raise an army and destroy that fortress, reducing it to dust!" According to the king's command, the ministers and a large army set out for war. We shall continue to contemplate. Thiruchitrambalam.

Chapter 03 — Pugazh Chozha Nayanar

Thiruchitrambalam. Periyapuranam, Part 970, composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. The Puranam of Pugazh Chozha Nayanar from the Poiyadimai Illatha Pulavar Sarukkam. Pugazh Chozha Nayanar commands an attack on Athigan, who did not bring tribute. The ministers gather their armies and set out. The eighteenth sacred verse: "Adalvallavar Aanaithinaal Amaicharkalum Purampoandhu Kadal Anaiya Nedum Padaiyaik Kai Vaguththu Mel Selvaar Padarvanamum Nedungiriyum Payil Aranum Podiyaaga Midal Udai Naal Karuviyura Venjamaram Miga Vilaiththaar." According to the command of the powerful Chozha king, the ministers, arranging their vast army like the ocean, advanced for battle. They went to wage a fierce war with their four divisions of army—chariots, elephants, horses, and infantry—so that dense forests, high mountains, and fortified places would be reduced to dust. The nineteenth sacred verse: "Valavanar Perum Senai Vanji Malar Midainthu Era Alavil Aran Akkuruumbil Athigarkon Adal Padaiyum Ulam Nirai Vemsinam Thirigi Uyar Kaanji Midainthu Era Kilar Kadalgal Irandu Enna Iru Padaiyum Kidaiththanavaal." The great armies of the Chozhas, adorned with Vanji flowers, set out for war. Athigan's powerful army, driven by intense anger, adorned with Kanchi flowers, came to battle. Vanji and Kanchi are ethical behaviors in warfare (Purathinai). The five types of Tamil grammar are Ezhuththu (letters), Sol (words), Porul (meaning), Yaappu (prosody), and Ani (figures of speech). Among these, Porul (meaning) is the most important. Porul Ilakkanam (grammar of meaning) is a unique feature of the Tamil language. This Porul Ilakkanam is divided into two sections: Agam (inner) and Puram (outer). Agapporul (inner meaning) refers to the events that occur between a hero and heroine who share mutual love. This is a joy experienced by the heart. Therefore, it is called Agam. Puram (outer meaning) is something that is known and understood by everyone and can be spoken about to others. This refers to the conduct that occurs externally, having the nature of both Dharma (righteousness) and Artha (wealth). Therefore, it is called Puram. The nature and divisions of Purathinai can be found in texts like Tholkappiyam Purathinai Iyal, Panniru Padalam, and Purapporul Venbamalai. There are 12 Purathinais. Among them, the seven from Vetci to Thumbai are classified as Puram. The third and fourth of these Purathinais are Vanji and Kanchi. Vanjithinai refers to going to war to capture the enemy's country. Those who go to war in this manner wear Vanji flowers. They wear Vanji garlands. Kanchithinai refers to establishing a strong defense to fight against the enemy who has come to wage war. Wearing Kanchi flowers is the tradition for this Thinai. Here, Pugazh Chozha Nayanar's armies are going to war against Athigan to capture his country. Therefore, they are wearing Vanji flower garlands. Athigan's armies are going to fight against the Chozha armies that have come to capture their country. Therefore, they are wearing Kanchi garlands. Thus, the two great armies met like two great oceans rising up. This Athigan was a king who was unsubmissive to the emperor and had defeated many. He became very angry when he saw the Chozha army coming to besiege his palace gate. His anger spread to his army as well. Now, the battle that took place between these two armies is described by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. In Tamil epic traditions, it is one of the features of great Tamil epics that the aspects of Agapporul and Purapporul should be well described. Therefore, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman, in accordance with this, described the aspects of Agapporul in the Thaduthaatkonda Puranam. Here, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman describes the extensive details related to Purapporul. Therefore, we see that the divine Sekkizhar Peruman has composed this sacred Puranam in accordance with the traditions of great Tamil epics. Now, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman begins to describe how the war took place. The twentieth sacred verse: "Gayamodu Gayam Ethir Kuthiththana Ayamudan Ayam Unai Muttrina Vayavarum Vayavarum Uttrinar Viyan Amar Viyalidham Mikkathe." Elephants clashed with opposing elephants. Horses fiercely collided with horses. Warriors fought against warriors. Thus, a great battle raged across the vast battlefield. The twenty-first sacred verse: "Malaiyodu Malaigal Malainthana Alaimadha Aruvi Kozhippodu Silainar Visaiyin Misaiththerum Kolai Mathakkari Kolai Uttrathe." Like mountains clashing with mountains, the elephant armies, with the roaring ichor flowing like waves, clashed with each other, killing and being killed. The twenty-second sacred verse: "Soorai Maarutham Otthu Ethir Eru Paay Pari Viththagar Veru Veru Thalaippeythu Seeri Aavi Seguththanar." Horsemen, like a whirlwind, charged against each other, angrily killing one another. The twenty-third sacred verse: "Mandu Porin Malaippavar Thundam Aayida Utru Ethir Kandar Aavi Kaliththanar Unda Soru Kazhikkaave." In the fierce battle, the warriors who fought against each other were cut into pieces. The warriors who fought against them rejoiced in their souls, having repaid their debt of food (by fighting bravely). The twenty-fourth sacred verse: "Veetinaar Udalil Pozhi Needuvaar Kuruthi Punal Odum Yaarena Ottathu Kodu Polva Pinakkkuvai." The flowing river of blood from the bodies of those who died, cut into pieces, was like a river. The piles of corpses of the dead warriors were like mountains. The twenty-fifth sacred verse: "Vaanilaavu Karungodi Menilaavu Parunthinam Enai Neen Kazhugin Kulam Aana Uuzhnodu Ezhunthave." Black crows flying in the sky, flocks of eagles soaring above them, and various kinds of vultures rose up to feed on the pieces of flesh. The twenty-sixth sacred verse: "Varivil Kathai Chakkaram Murkaram Vaal Surigaippadai Sakthi Kazhukkadai Vel Erimuthalai Kappanam Meyppayil Kol Muri Uttrana Uttrana Moykkkalame." In this sacred verse, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman sings about the weapons that were broken during the war. Varivil, a tightly strung bow. Murkaram, a type of weapon like a hammer held in the forearm, also called Musundi. Surigaippadai, a dagger. Sakthi, a small trident. Kazhukkadai, a spear. Erimuthalai, a trident that shoots fire, a flaming trident. Kappanam, a type of weapon made of iron, shaped like an elephant's caltrop. Bright arrows, bows, and swords—all these weapons were broken due to their use in battle. The twenty-seventh sacred verse: "Vadivel Athigan Padai Maala Varai Kadisuzh Aranakkanaavaai Niravi Kodima Mathil Needu Kurum Poraiyur Mudi Neriyanar Padai Muttrirathe." Athigan's armies were defeated and perished. The armies of Pugazh Chozhan, the crowned king, destroyed the mountain fortresses and the passes, besieged the long ramparts of Kurum Poraiyur, and captured the city. We see this siege described as Uzhignai Thinai in Tamil literature. The twenty-eighth and twenty-ninth sacred verses: "Muttrum Por Senai Munai Thalayil Sutkatrin Purisaippathi Kattazhiya Pattrum Thurai Nochi Parinthu Udaiya Suttrum Padai Veerar Thunitthanare. Maarutra Viral Padai Vaal Athigan Nutru Perum Padai Nuzhil Pada Paarutra Eyil Pathi Pattrara Vittu Erutranan Odi Irunchurame." Athigan's army was utterly crushed. The city of Athigan was destroyed by the advancing Chozha armies that had besieged it. As Athigan's armies were destroyed and piled up, Athigan fled from his city and hid in a large forest. Pathitruppathu states that this Athigan defeated seven kings in battle and was finally defeated by Cheraman Peruncheral Irumborai. So now he fled to the forest. We can infer from this history that he fled, then gathered armies again and established his rule, and was later defeated by Cheraman Peruncheral Irumborai. The thirtieth sacred verse: "Athigan Padaippor Porutratrathalai Pothiyin Kuvai Ennila Poyina Pin Nithiyin Kuvai Mangaiyar Neen Parima Ethirum Kari Pattrinar Ennilare." The number of piles of severed heads of Athigan's warriors who fought in the battle was countless. All of them were brought to Karuvoor. It was one of the ancient war customs for the victorious king's soldiers to bring the piles of severed heads of the defeated king's soldiers before their king. Similarly, plundering goods from the defeated king's city was also a war custom. However, these were not acts of injustice and atrocities as seen in later days and in the invasions of Muslims. These were related to our war customs, which involved taking only the wealth that could be taken according to the rules of war. In other invasions, we see them taking the wealth of common people and even destroying them. What is mentioned here is not such an act. It is a war custom of taking only the heaps of treasure found in the palaces of the defeated kings. Moreover, they also captured the horses and elephants there. They still do so now. The thirty-first and thirty-second sacred verses: "Aran Mutri Ezhuntha Amaicharkal Thaam Iranath Thozhil Vittu Ezhil Suzhntha Karuvoor Muran Utra Sirappodu Munninar Neen Tharani Thalaivan Kazhal Saaruvave Mannum Karuvoor Nagar Vaayilin Vaay Mun Vantha Karunthalai Moykkuvai Thaan Minnum Sudar Maa Mudi Vel Valavan Thanpu Konarnthanar Thaanai Uloor." The ministers, who had besieged and destroyed Athigan's fortress, abandoned their war duties and arrived at the sacred city of Karuvoor with the glory of their victory, to reach the feet of Pugazh Chozha Nayanar, the leader of the vast earth. At the entrance of Karuvoor, they placed the piles of severed heads. These piles would be shown to the king by them. The king would also inspect them. Therefore, they would be placed at the city limits. The king would come and inspect them, and then they would be taken into the city. Taking these piles of heads into the city before the king's inspection would not be auspicious or pure. Therefore, they piled them up at the city limits. Pugazh Chozha Nayanar, the king who is like the life of the earth, inspects these piles of heads. We shall continue to contemplate. Thiruchitrambalam.

Chapter 04 — Pugazh Chozha Nayanar

Thiruchitrambalam. Periyapuranam, Part 971, composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. The Puranam of Pugazh Chozha Nayanar from the Poiyadimai Illatha Pulavar Sarukkam. As Pugazh Chozha Nayanar was inspecting the piles of heads of the defeated soldiers, he saw a head with matted locks and sacred ash among them. Matted locks are a symbol of Lord Shiva. Lord Shiva is known by the names Sadaiyan and Kapardhan. The matted locks are a symbol of Lord Shiva, who has a third eye. Even Shiva's devotees would wear such matted locks. Pugazh Chozha Nayanar saw such a small matted lock. Upon seeing it, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman describes the mental state and physical changes that occurred in the Nayanar in the next three sacred verses. At that moment, when Pugazh Chozha Nayanar was standing in joy, with his pride, victorious fame, and established imperial rule shining forth, upon seeing the head with matted locks, all these emotions completely changed. He felt that a sin against Shiva had occurred, and he was plunged into great sorrow. Thus, the quality of protecting the path of sacred ash (Thiruneeru) prevailed in Pugazh Chozha Nayanar. The king's status was secondary to this. Therefore, due to his nature, Eribaththa Nayanar praised Pugazh Chozha Nayanar, saying that only Lord Ambalavanar (Shiva) could truly understand his devotion, as we saw in the sacred verse of Eribaththa Nayanar. That is why, saying "Puzhil Karuvoor Thunjia Pugazh Chozharkku Adiyen," Pugazh Chozha Nayanar, who protected this path of Shiva, decided to enter the fire, offering his life as an atonement for this sin against Shiva. This is the greatness of his love. Now, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman sings about the changes that occurred in Pugazh Chozha Nayanar upon seeing the head with matted locks. The thirty-fourth sacred verse: "Kanda Pozhuthe Nadungi Manam Kalangi Kai Thozhuthu Konda Perum Payaththudan Kuriththu Ethir Sendru Athu Konarntha Thin Thiralon Kai Thalaiyil Sadai Theriyap Paarththaruli Pundarikath Thirukkanneer Pozhinthu Eliya Puravalanar." As he saw the head with matted locks in the hand of the strong warrior who brought it, from a distance, he saw it as an indeterminate vision. When he came closer, it became very clear that it was indeed a head with matted locks, a determinate vision. Upon seeing it, his body trembled, his mind was agitated, he bowed with folded hands, and with great fear, he looked at it. As he looked, tears flowed from his lotus-like eyes, and his mind was filled with anguish. These tears were tears of great sorrow, born of immense compassion and distress. The thirty-fifth sacred verse: "Murasudait Thin Padai Kodupoay Muthal Amaichchar Munai Murukki Urai Sirakkum Pugazh Vendri Ondru Ozhiya Ondraamal Thirai Sarintha Kadal Ulakil Thiruneetrin Neri Purandhu Yaan Arasu Aliththapadi Saala Azhagithu Ena Azhinthu Ayarvaar." He lamented, saying, "My ministers, with their strong army, went and defeated the enemy, achieving a glorious victory that is spoken of by others. But I have failed to protect the path of sacred ash in this world, which is like a sea with flowing waves. The way I ruled is indeed very beautiful, very auspicious," and thus, he became distressed and weary. He spoke with self-reproach, saying, "It is indeed very beautiful," with a sense of weariness. The thirty-sixth sacred verse: "Thaar Thaangi Kadan Mudiththa Sadai Thaangum Thirumudiyar Neer Thaangum Sadai Perumaan Neritham Kandavar Aanaar Seer Thaangum Ivar Venich Chirath Thaangi Varap Kandu Paarththaanga Irunthano Pazhi Thaanguven Endraar." He said, "The one with the matted hair, who completed his duty to his king, was one who followed the path of Lord Shiva, who bears matted hair and sacred ash. How could I still be living on this earth, having seen this glorious head with matted hair being brought? The one with matted hair is a follower of Lord Shiva, who bears matted hair. Even after seeing this symbol of disgrace, brought as a symbol of victory by someone in his hand, my life has not departed. If my life does not depart, I am living on this earth moment by moment. Was it not my foremost duty to renounce my life upon seeing this? From the moment I saw this, am I not bearing the blame? Therefore, I will not bear this blame, but will renounce my life and seek a solution," and thus, he resolved in his heart. The thirty-seventh sacred verse: "Endru Arulich Cheythu Aruli Itharku Isaiyumpadi Thunivaar Nindra Neri Amaicharkku Neen Nilam Kaaththu Arasu Aliththu Mandril Nadam Purivaar Tham Vazhiththondin Vazhi Nirkka Vendri Mudi En Kumaran Thanai Punaiveer Ena Vithiththaar." Having spoken thus, Pugazh Chozha Nayanar resolved to perform the act that would be a solution to this. He commanded his ministers, who stood by his command and the rules of good governance, saying, "Crown my son immediately!" The king, Pugazh Chozha Nayanar, commanded, "Crown my son with this crown, so that he may protect this vast world and rule, following the path of devotion to the Lord who dances in the assembly." He meant that his son should rule without deviating from the path of protecting the sacred ash and without incurring blame like him. Therefore, Pugazh Chozha Nayanar said, "Crown my son so that he may achieve victory by following the path of Shiva's devotion." He had decided to enter the fire to cleanse himself of this blame. Therefore, he thus commanded his ministers on how the kingdom should be governed. He said that protecting the path of sacred ash should be cherished and protected more than one's own life. He said that such protection is victory. The thirty-eighth and thirty-ninth sacred verses: "Am Maatram Kettazhiyum Amaicharaiyum Idar Akattri Kai Maatrum Seyal Thaame Kadanaatrum Karutthu Udaiyaar Sem Maarkkam Thalai Nindru Senthee Mun Valarppiththu Poy Maatrum Thiruneetrup Punai Kolaththinil Polinthaar. Kanda Sadai Chiraththinai Or Kanakamani Kalaththu Enthi Thondu Thirumudi Thaangi Kulavum Eri Valam Kolvaar Andar Piraan Thirunaamaththu Anjezuththum Eduththu Othi Mandu Thazhal Pizhambin Idai Magizhntharuli Ul Pukkaar." The ministers, hearing the command of the great king Pugazh Chozha Nayanar, were saddened. Due to their great love for the king and the thought that they were partly responsible for the sin against Shiva for which the king had decided to end his life, the ministers were greatly distressed. Generally, only the king himself can guide kings on the right path. Because if others in a country commit mistakes or crimes, the king will impose punishment or a solution and guide them on the right path. But if the king himself makes a mistake or commits a crime, he must devise a solution for it and implement it himself. The king guides other beings in the world on the right path. There is no one else to guide the king. Therefore, when the king himself deviates from the path, he must understand the solution and implement it himself. We recall the Puranam of Manu Needhi Chozha, the history of Porkai Pandiyan, and the histories of Pandiyan Nedunchezhiyan at this point. Therefore, Pugazh Chozha Nayanar thought that the solution to the sin against Shiva that he had committed was to offer his life, and there was nothing more than that. Therefore, he resolved to do so. Having resolved thus, the great king Pugazh Chozha Nayanar now appeared in the sacred form adorned with sacred ash, which can change the false path, considering God as the only truth (Sat) and all other things related to life as false (Asat). To perform this atonement, he needed to purify his body and soul. Therefore, Pugazh Chozha Nayanar adorned himself with sacred ash, which can achieve both these purifications. He carried the head with matted locks that he had seen in a beautiful golden vessel, placed it on his sacred head, lit a fire, and circumambulated it. As he circumambulated, he chanted the sacred five-letter mantra (Panchaaksharam), the holy name of Lord Shiva, the Lord of the gods. He was a follower of Shiva, and the head had matted locks. Therefore, he believed that the solution to this suffering and the blame that arose from it was to chant the name of Shiva and enter the fire. This fire, which he circumambulated, was a blazing sacred fire, a Shivaacharam, which would remove the blame and lead him to Lord Shiva. He circumambulated it, chanting the five-letter mantra, the holy name of Shiva. It is a tradition to begin great endeavors by chanting the Shiva Nama Sri Panchaaksharam, the sacred five-letter mantra. Thus, chanting the name of Shiva, he circumambulated the fire and, with joy that he was going to be purified from the blame of this sin against Shiva, he entered the blazing fire. The fortieth sacred verse: "Pokkappozhuthu Alar Maari Puvi Niraiya Pozhinthu Ezhiya Mikka Perum Mangala Thooriyam Visumbin Muzhakku Eduppa Sekkar Nedunjadai Mudiyar Silambalambu Sevadiyin A Karunai Thirunizhal Keezh Aaraamai Amarnthirunthaar." When Pugazh Chozha Nayanar entered the blazing fire as described earlier, a divine rain of flowers showered down, filling the entire earth. Great auspicious musical instruments resounded in the sky. We see that these things happen during the manifestation of Shiva's grace. Pugazh Chozha Nayanar remained in an inseparable state beneath the shade of the sacred feet of Lord Shiva, who has long matted hair like the evening sky, a shade of great compassion. It is also customary to refer to the Lord's sacred feet as His grace. Therefore, he remained eternally beneath that shade of compassionate grace, inseparable from it. He entered the fire, yet he was protected by a shade from the heat. We see this poetic and divine poetic beauty here. The sacred feet (Sevadi) are the raised feet, as described by "Mukthi Naandra Malarpathathe Naadu" (seek the lotus feet that grant liberation). These are the sacred feet where the anklets (silambu) jingle, the feet where the Vedas, like anklets, resound. Pugazh Chozha Nayanar remained eternally established beneath those sacred feet. The forty-first sacred verse: "Murasangol Kadal Thaanai Moovendar Thangalin Mun Prasangol Narunthodaiyal Pugazh Chozhar Perumaiyinai Parasum Kutrsevallinaal Avar Paatham Paninthu Eththi Narasinga Munaiyar Thiram Naam Arinthapadi Urappaam." The divine Sekkizhar Peruman, having concluded the Puranam of Pugazh Chozha Nayanar, which he has narrated so far, now, in accordance with his tradition, introduces the next Puranam, that of Narasinga Munaiyaraiyar Nayanar, saying, "We shall now describe the greatness of Narasinga Munaiyaraiyar Nayanar, as we know it, by praising the greatness of Pugazh Chozhar, who wears fragrant garlands, before the three kings with their ocean-like armies, and by worshipping and extolling his feet with humble devotion." Let us also praise the sacred feet of Pugazh Chozha Nayanar and continue to contemplate the sacred Puranam of Narasinga Munaiyaraiyar Nayanar. Praise, praise to the sacred feet of our Lord Pugazh Chozha Nayanar! Praise, praise to the sacred feet of our Lord Sundaramoorthy Swamigal! Praise, praise to the sacred feet of Nambiyandar Nambigal! Praise, praise to the sacred feet of the divine Sekkizhar Peruman! Praise, praise to the sacred feet of the commentator Sivakavimani Sambandha Saranalaya Swamigal! Thiruchitrambalam.