Chapter 01 — Kootruva Nayanar

Thiruchitrambalam. Periyapuranam, Part 966, composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. This is the Puranam of Kootruva Nayanar, from the Varkonda Vanamulaiyal Sarga. Following the Puranam of Gananatha Nayanar in Periyapuranam, the Puranam of Kootruva Nayanar is the 39th puranam. The divine Sekkizhar Peruman has explained this sacred history in eight verses. According to our tradition, first the Thogai Nool (summary text), then the Vagai Nool (classified text), and then the Viri Nool (detailed text). In the Thogai Nool, Thiruthondathogai, in the sixth verse of the Thirupathigam, Sundaramoorthy Swamigal praises Kootruva Nayanar. He praises him saying, "Aarkonda Vel Kootran Kalanthaikkon Adiyen." The meaning of this is, "I am a servant of Kootruvar, who wields a sharp spear, the chief of the place called Kalanthai." In "Aarkonda Vel," "Aar" denotes sharpness. Now, in the Vagai Nool, Thiruthondar Thiruvandhadhi, Nambiyandar Nambigal Swamigal, in the 47th verse, praises Kootruva Nayanar. The verse is: "Nadhan Thiruvadiye mudiyaga kavithu nalla bodham karuthil porithamaiyal adhu kaikkoduppa Odham thazhuviya gnanamellam oru kolin vaithan Kodhai nedhuvel Kalapalanaagiya Kootruvane." Kootruvar, the chief of the place called Kalanthai, who wielded a long spear and wore a garland, crowned himself with the sacred feet of Lord Shiva as his royal crown. By imprinting the beneficial Shiva Gnanam (divine knowledge) in his heart, that Shiva Gnanam became his steadfast support. Thus, Kootruva Nayanar made the entire ocean-surrounded world live under his single scepter. This is the meaning of the Thiruthondar Thiruvandhadhi verse. Now, in the Viri Nool, Thiruthondar Puranam, which is Periyapuranam, is the Puranam of Kootruva Nayanar. This section describes the history and character of Kootruva Nayanar. The divine Sekkizhar Peruman, in the Varkonda Vanamulaiyal Sarga, which is the seventh in sequence, begins to narrate the Puranam of Kootruva Nayanar as the sixth puranam. The first verse: "Thunnar munaigal thol valiyal vendru soolappadaiyar tham nal naamam tham thirunavil naalum navilu nalam mikkar pannal Eesar adiyar tham padham paravi panindhu ethi munnagiya nal thiruthondin muyandrar Kalanthai mudhalvanar." Kootruva Nayanar, the chief of the place called Kalanthai. Kalanthai is the place where Kootruva Nayanar was born and lived. It is also called Kalappal. Currently, it is a place called Kalappal or Kalanthai, located in the Chola country, west of Thiruthuraipoondi, southwest of Thirukkalar, on the southern bank of the Mulliyar river. There are also those who say that this is Ponvilaintha Kalathur in Thondai Nadu. Thus, Kootruvanar, the chief of Kalanthai, conquered all his enemies in battles with the strength of his shoulders. He was a person of great virtue, who daily recited the auspicious name of Lord Shiva, who wields the trident. The auspicious name of Shiva grants the ultimate liberation (Veeduperu). Kootruva Nayanar's tongue was blessed to utter that auspicious name of Shiva. He was a person of great virtue who daily uttered the auspicious name of Lord Shiva with his pure tongue. For many days, he bowed and praised the feet of the Lord's devotees and engaged in excellent sacred service as his primary duty. The second verse: "Arulin valiyal arasu odhunga avaniyellam adippaduppar porulin mudivum kaanpariya vagaiyal polivithu igal sirakka marulum kaliru pay puravi manither padaiyinar mudhal matrar verulum karuvi nangu nirai veeracherukkin melanaar." With the help of Lord Shiva's divine grace, Kootruva Nayanar made all kings bow down in fear and brought the entire earth under his rule. Kootruva Nayanar was not actually a king. But seeing his strength, even crowned kings feared him, were defeated, and retreated. Thus, he achieved victory and maintained the four types of armies. He accumulated immeasurable wealth, gold, and valuable goods necessary to administer the world. He maintained the four types of armies – elephant corps, cavalry, chariot corps, and infantry – as his instruments, and excelled in the pride and arrogance born of valor. The third verse: "Vendri vinaiyin meekkura vendhar munaigal pala murukki sendru thumbai thurai mudithum seruvil vagai thiram kezhumi mandral malai midaithavar tham valanadu ellam kavarndhu mudi ondrum ozhiya arasar thiru ellam udaiyar ayinar." He engaged in many great wars with kings, increasing his victorious deeds. After completing the war activities, which are like wearing the Thumbai flower, and achieving victory in those battles, he wore the Vagai garland and ruled over all the prosperous lands of the kings. The Thumbai and Vagai mentioned here are purathinai (external divisions) mentioned in Tamil literature under purapporul (external matters). They are categories from Vetci to Thumbai. Thumbai and Vagai are the final categories. Thumbai signifies war. Vagai signifies victory in war. Therefore, warriors wear the Thumbai flower. Those who achieve victory wear the Vagai flower. Thus, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman mentions here, "Thumbai thurai mudithum Vagai thiram kamazhum malai midaithum." Vagai is a purathinai that signifies conquering enemies. It is natural and traditional for victors to wear the Vagai garland. These distinctions can be found in grammatical texts like Tholkappiyam, Panniru Padalam, and Purapporul Venba Malai. Thus, Kootruva Nayanar, who achieved victory, possessed all the ten royal insignia (Dasangam) except for the most important one, the Navamani Mudi (crown of nine gems), which is said to belong to kings. Kootruva Nayanar was not of royal lineage. Therefore, he did not wear the crown. Apart from that, he excelled in possessing all the other insignia of kings. The fourth verse: "Mallal gnanam purakkinrar manima mauli punaivatharku thillaival andhanar thammai venda avarum sembiyar tham thollai needum kula mudhalorku andri soottom mudi endru nalkaragi seralan than malainadu anaiya nannuvar." Kootruva Nayanar, who was protecting this prosperous world, requested the Thillai Vazh Andhanars (Brahmins of Chidambaram) to crown him with the great crown adorned with nine gems. It was the tradition of the Chola kings that their Navamani Mudi was kept safely in the Thillai Perambalam Bhandaram under the divine protection of Lord Ambalavanar, in the custody of the Thillai Vazh Andhanars. When Chola kings were to be crowned, this gem-studded crown was given to them by the Thillai Vazh Andhanars. After the coronation, it was again placed in the Perambalam Bhandaram of the Thillai temple and guarded by the Thillai Vazh Andhanars. Thus, we learn about the close connection between the Thillai Vazh Andhanars and the Chola kings through historical records and inscriptions. There are five capital cities where the Cholas were crowned: Kaveripoompattinam, Thiruvarur, Uraiyur, Karuvur, and Sengalur. Therefore, they would receive the crown from the Thillai Vazh Andhanars for the coronation ceremony, perform the ceremony in one of these five cities, and then return it to the custody of the Thillai Vazh Andhanars, under the protection of Ambalavanar. We see that Hiranyavarman and others of the Surya dynasty were crowned in Thillai.

Therefore, we also see that it was the responsibility of the Thillai Vazh Andhanars to ensure the stability and proper conduct of the Chola kings' rule. We see the connection of the Chola kings with the Thillai Thiruvambalam, their covering of the Chithambalam, Perambalam, and various other places within the Thillai boundaries with gold. We also see that in later times, during foreign invasions, Lord Ambalakuthar resided in Thiruvarur for some time, and other such historical events. The great teacher Sekkizhar Peruman, who was a minister to Anapaya Chola, the chief of the Chola dynasty, who made the Perambalam and the Thillai boundaries golden, was well aware of all these royal traditions. Therefore, he explains them to us here. Thus, Kootruva Nayanar requests the Thillai Vazh Andhanars to crown him. But the Thillai Vazh Andhanars state that they would only crown those who belong to the ancient lineage of the Cholas, and not others. They did not agree to crown Kootruva Nayanar. Since they went against the king's wish, the Thillai Vazh Andhanars went to the mountain country of the Chera king. Fearing to stay there as they had opposed the ruler's will, they went to the Chera country. Thus, it is understood that the Chera country was not under the rule of Kootruva Nayanar. While going to the Chera country, they left behind one family from their community in Thillai. They did this so that one family would remain there for performing pujas to Lord Koothaperuman and for guarding the sacred ornaments. Along with this, they left that one family for guarding the crown. The divine Sekkizhar Peruman explains this in the fifth verse. "Orumai urimai Thillaival Andhanargal thammil oru kudiyai perumai mudiyai arumai puri kaval penum padi iruthi irumai marabum thuyavar tham Serar nattil eydhiya pin varum aiyuraval manam thalarndhu mandril aadum kazhal panivar." The Thillai Vazh Andhanars, who possessed unique rights. The "orumai" (unity/singleness of purpose) of the Thillai Vazh Andhanars refers to their adherence to a single righteous path. "Urimai" (right) refers to their right to preserve, crown, and protect the crown through generations. They had the right to crown only one lineage of the Cholas. Such Thillai Vazh Andhanars, who possessed this unique right and unity, left one family among themselves to guard the glorious crown carefully and stayed there. The rest of the Thillai Vazh Andhanars went to the Chera country. Kootruva Nayanar meditates upon and bows to the sacred feet of Lord Koothaperuman. How? The sixth verse: "Attrai naalin iravin kan adiyen thanakku mudiyaga petra peru malarppadham pera vendum ena paravum patru vidathu thuyilvorku kanavil padha malar alikka utra arulal avai thangi ulagam ellam thanippurandhar." Since the Thillai Vazh Andhanars did not agree to crown him, and his desired coronation did not take place, Kootruva Nayanar, not knowing what else to do, meditated upon and bowed to the feet of the Lord. The crown was with the Thillai Vazh Andhanars. They alone had the right to crown him. Among the Thillai Vazh Andhanars, Koothaperuman is also one. Therefore, Kootruva Nayanar bows to the feet of Ambalavanar and requests to be crowned. We should recall here that in the Puranam of the Thillai Vazh Andhanars, Lord Ambalavar was first praised. Therefore, Kootruva Nayanar, praying to the Lord's feet, saying, "I, your servant, should be blessed with your lotus feet as my crown," falls asleep. In his dream, Koothaperuman appears and crowns Kootruva Nayanar with His own feet. With that divine grace, Kootruva Nayanar bore those feet as his crown and ruled the entire world uniquely. Crowns are perishable material objects. The Lord's lotus feet are full of wisdom and eternal. "A great light of supreme knowledge that knows everything simultaneously by a single nature is the crown," as seen in the eighth sutra of Sivagnanabodham Chitrurai. Therefore, while Kootruva Nayanar was sleeping, not letting go of the thought of being subservient like a tree under the Lord's feet, which are the feet of wisdom, Lord Thillai Nataraja crowned Kootruva Nayanar with His own feet. Bearing those sacred feet as his crown, Kootruva Nayanar ruled with unparalleled authority. The seventh verse: "Ampon needum Ambalathul aara amudha thirunadam sey Thambiranar puviyil magizh koyil ellam thanithaniyee imbar gnanam kalikkura eydhum perum poosanai iyatri umbar magizha arasu aliththe umaiyal kanavan adi serndhar." Kootruva Nayanar performed great pujas individually in all the temples where the Lord, who performs the dance of endless nectar in the beautiful golden Ambalam, joyfully resides on this earth. It is one of the most important duties of a king to ensure that pujas are performed without fail in the Lord's temples. We see this in various places in Periyapuranam. Therefore, Kootruva Nayanar provided everything necessary for the temples individually. In these days, temple authorities who offer the sacred food prepared for one temple to all other temple deities should read this and reform themselves to behave properly. He performed these pujas for the joy of this world. This is called Parartha Puja. All pujas performed in temples are done by the king for the well-being of this world. If these are done well, this world will flourish happily. If not, this world will suffer. Thirumooladeva Nayanar, in Thirumandhiram, explained that if temple pujas are obstructed, it will bring harm to the country and the government, stating, "Munnavaanaar koyil pujai muttidil mannarku theengu ulla vaari valam kundrum kannan kalavu miguthidum kaasinie." The righteous rule conducted according to the dharma shastras causes rain and also causes the worship of the celestials. Therefore, Kootruva Nayanar ruled in such a way that the world rejoiced through the Lord's pujas and the celestials rejoiced through his rule. Having done all this, Kootruva Nayanar attained Sayujya Mukti, the sacred feet of Lord Shiva, the consort of Uma. Now, the eighth and concluding verse in the Puranam of Kootruva Nayanar: "Kadhal perumai thondin nilai kadal suzh vaiyam kathu alithu kodhu angu agala muyal Kalanthai Kootranar tham kazhal vanangi nadha marai thandhu alithar nadai nul pavil navitru ethum bodham maruvi poyyadimai illa pulavar seyal pugazhvam enbadhu thiruppadal." We now proceed to praise the actions of the devotees who are poets without false servitude, endowed with Shiva Gnanam, who, with great love and devotion, protected and ruled the ocean-surrounded world, striving to remove all impurities, bowed to the feet of Kalanthai Kootruvanar, and praised the Lord who bestowed the Vedas, with verses from good texts. Thus, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman concludes the Thirupuranam of Kootruva Nayanar and now sets the stage for the next Sarga, the Poyyadimai Illa Pulavar Sarga, and its first Puranam, the Poyyadimai Illa Pulavar Puranam. Thus, the Thirupuranams of the Nayanars mentioned in the sixth verse of Thiruthondar Thogai conclude here. The concluding line of Thiruthondar Thogai is "Aruran Aruril Ammanukku Aale." Accordingly, Nambiyandar Nambigal, in Thiruthondar Thiruvandhadhi, composed a praise for Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, and the divine Sekkizhar Peruman also includes a praise for Sundaramoorthy Nayanar at the end of each Sarga. In that context, "Aruran Aruril Ammanukku Aale" is the line from the Thogai Nool. Its meaning is that "I, Nambi Aruran, am not only a servant to the Nayanars mentioned earlier, but also to the Lord residing in Thiruvarur." Now, in the Vagai Nool, Thiruthondar Thiruvandhadhi, the 48th verse, composed by Nambiyandar Nambigal as a praise to Sundaramoorthy Nayanar: "Kootrukku evano pugal Thiruvaruran ponmudimel etru thodaiyalum in adaikkaiyum idudharumak kunanum kunpoi kurudanum kanpetramai satrith thiriyum pazhamozhiyam iththaraniyile." What refuge is there for Yama (the god of death)? What refuge is there for Yama among us who praise Sundaramoorthy Swamigal? There is none anywhere. That Nambi Arurar, the hunchback who brought the garland to be placed on his golden crown and the sweet betel nut (tamboolam) he consumed, had his hunchback cured. The blind man regained his sight. In this world, where people wander proclaiming that divine miracle and praising Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, seeking refuge in his feet, what refuge is there for Yama? There is none anywhere, is the meaning of this verse. Now, in the Viri Nool, the praise of Sundaramoorthy Swamigal composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman for this Sarga, which is the 3938th verse in Periyapuranam, is as follows: "Thenum kuzhalum pizhaitha thirumozhiyal pulavi theerkka mathithanum paniyum pagai theerkkum sadaiyar thoodhu tharum thirunal kunum kurudum theerthu eval kolvar kulavu malarpadham yanum paravi theerkkindren ezhu pirappin mudangu kun." The divine Sekkizhar Peruman states: "I too praise the lotus feet of Nambi Arurar, who is Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, who, on that auspicious day when the Lord with matted locks, whose moon and snake resolved their enmity, went as a messenger to resolve the sulk of Paravaiyammaiyar, whose sweet words surpassed honey and the flute, cured the hunchback's hunch and the blind man's blindness and took them into his service. By doing so, I cure the hunchback nature of my seven births, which is a state of being confined and bent, and the blindness of ignorance that drives them." In these two verses, the divine miracle mentioned in Thiruthondar Thiruvandhadhi and Periyapuranam is the curing of the hunchback's hunch and the blind man's regaining of sight. This divine miracle occurred when the Lord went as a messenger twice for Sundaramoorthy Swamigal to Paravaiyammaiyar. After the Lord went as a messenger for the second time and bestowed His grace, Sundaramoorthy Swamigal proceeded from the Devasiriya Mandapam to Paravaiyammaiyar's mansion. At that time, all the attendants gathered before Sundaramoorthy Swamigal arrived. They stood there, holding garlands, sandalwood paste, etc., to accompany him. Among these attendants was a hunchback and a blind man. They both wished to carry garlands, sandalwood, etc., but due to their physical disabilities, they could not. They appealed to Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, and by his divine grace, the hunchback was cured of his hunch, and the blind man regained his sight. Then, joining the other attendants, they carried garlands, sandalwood, and sacred betel nut and went to Paravaiyammaiyar's mansion – this is the sacred history. By bowing to the sacred feet of Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, who performed such a divine miracle, our hunchback nature and our blindness can also be cured. Our hunchback nature refers to the crippling hunch that comes in all seven births. It is the state of being bent and confined in the womb in countless ways across all seven types of births. That is the hunch of living beings. Curing this hunch means eliminating birth itself. Now, the blindness of living beings is the veil of ego that obscures knowledge, preventing them from knowing the way to escape this birth.

Sundaramoorthy Swamigal is capable of curing this hunch and blindness of living beings and taking them into his service, just as he cured the hunch and blindness in Thiruvarur and took them into his service. We learn from this sacred history that the sacred feet of Sundaramoorthy Swamigal are capable of curing our birth-hunch and birth-blindness. Therefore, let us praise the sacred feet of Sundaramoorthy Swamigal, cut off the cycle of birth, and attain salvation. The divine Sekkizhar Peruman shows us through this praise that the worship of Sundaramoorthy Swamigal's feet is capable of cutting off the cycle of birth. Thus, the Varkonda Vanamulaiyal Sarga, the seventh Sarga in Thiruthondar Puranam, concludes. Now, we will proceed to contemplate the Poyyadimai Illa Pulavar Sarga, the eighth Sarga, and the Poyyadimai Illa Pulavar Puranam within it. Thiruchitrambalam.