Chapter 01 — AdhiBaththa Nayanar

Thiruchitrambalam. Periyapuranam, Part 973, composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. The section on Poiyadimai Illatha Pulavar, the Puranam of AdhiBaththa Nayanar. In the Periyapuranam composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman, the Puranam of AdhiBaththa Nayanar follows the Puranam of Narasinga Munaiyaraiyar Nayanar. In the seventh Thiru-paadal of the anthology Thiruththondaththogai, Sundaramurthi Swamigal praises AdhiBaththa Nayanar as follows: "Virithirai soozh kadal Nagai AdhiBaththarkku adiyen," meaning, "I am a servant to AdhiBaththa Nayanar, who was born in Nagapattinam, a coastal town surrounded by spreading waves." The meaning of this is that AdhiBaththa Nayanar, born in Nagapattinam, a coastal town surrounded by spreading waves, is someone to whom I am a servant. Nagapattinam is "Virithirai soozh kadal Nagai." "Viri" refers to the waves that rise gradually due to the wind, swell, and spread onto the shore. The city located on such a coast is called Nagai, or Nagapattinam. Nagam (Adiseshan) worshipped the Lord in this place, hence it is called Nagai and Nagapattinam. This city of Nagapattinam is a source of wealth and prosperity. Furthermore, AdhiBaththa Nayanar was born into the fishing community of Parathavar and, by engaging in the fishing profession, he remembered Lord Shiva, performed sacred service, and attained great blessings. The sea was the reason for this. The fact that Nagapattinam is a city on its shore is made clear by our Lord Sundaramurthi Swamigal, who praises him as "Virithirai soozh kadal Nagai AdhiBaththarkku adiyen." Now, in the 52nd Thiru-paadal of the anthology Thiruththondar Thiruvandhadhi, Nambiyandar Nambigal Peruman has composed a Thiru-paadal praising AdhiBaththa Nayanar. That Thiru-paadal is as follows: "Thiram amar meen padukkum pozhudhu aangoru meen Sivarkku endru urai amar maakadarkke viduvon oru naal kanaga niram amar meen pada ninmalarkku endru vitton kamalam puram amar Nagai AdhiBaththanagiya Poiyiliye." This Thiru-paadal means that when he caught a fish of excellent quality, he would release one such fish into the great sea, saying, "This is for Shiva." One day, when he caught a golden-colored fish, he released it into the sea, saying, "This is for the Immaculate One." He is AdhiBaththar, the truthful devotee, born in Nagai, where lotuses bloom. The fish caught in the sea are very large sea fish. They are very expensive. In addition, there are many types of fish. Fish come into the net. This is called "meen paduththal" (catching fish). This is a traditional custom. Whenever a good quality fish was caught, our AdhiBaththa Nayanar would think, "This is for Lord Shiva," and release that excellent fish into the great sea. One day, while living in this manner, a golden fish was caught in AdhiBaththa Nayanar's net. It was a golden fish, shining with precious gems, desired by all. AdhiBaththa Nayanar again released that fish into the sea, saying, "Let this be for Lord Shiva." He released it into the sea for Lord Shiva, the Immaculate One. He is AdhiBaththar, the truthful devotee, born in Nagapattinam, where lotuses bloom on its outskirts. This is the meaning of this anthology. Now, in the extensive work, Periyapuranam, composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman, in the section called Poiyadimai Illatha Pulavar Sarukkam, which is the eighth section, the Puranam of AdhiBaththa Nayanar is the fourth Puranam. This section describes the history and character of AdhiBaththa Nayanar. As the 43rd Thiru-puranam, the Puranam of AdhiBaththa Nayanar is explained in 20 Thiru-paadals by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. Now, the first Thiru-paadal: "Manniya needi sengkathiravan vazhi marabin thonmayaa mudal Chozhar tham thirukkulaththu urimai ponnin naadu enum karpaga poongodi malar pol nanmai saanradhu Nagappattinath thirunagaram." The lineage of the Chozhas is a tradition that came from the path of the sun. Similarly, the lineage of the Pandiyas is a tradition that came from the path of the moon. The lineage that came from the path of Agni is the Chera lineage. The Chozhas, who came from the glorious solar dynasty, had their own country, Chozha Nadu, also known as Ponni Nadu. Just as such a Ponni Nadu shines like a Karpaga creeper, the city of Nagapattinam is like a Karpaga flower that has bloomed on that Karpaga creeper. A Karpaga creeper gives whatever one desires. If we consider Karpagam as a tree, the Kaveri river is the Karpaga tree. The country through which it flows is the creeper that spreads on the Karpagam. Nagapattinam in that country is the flower of that Karpaga creeper. The divine Sekkizhar Peruman thus compares it, as this country provides all desired resources as needed. The fruit of a creeper is its flower; similarly, the fruit of the Chozha country is this city of Nagapattinam. This is a sacred city. It is a city of great prosperity due to its connection with Shiva. Nagapattinam is also praised as a Saiva Rajadhani (capital of Saivism). The divine Sekkizhar Peruman, according to his Puranic tradition, begins by describing the prosperity of the country, the prosperity of the city, the prosperity of the lineage in which the Nayanar was born, and their greatness. Now, the second Thiru-paadal: "Thama niththilak kovaigal sarindhida charindha the malarkkuzhal maathar pandhaadutha thettrigal soozh kaamar porchudar maaligai karungadal mugandha maamugil kula malaiyena veruva marungu." In Nagapattinam, on the platforms, women with hair adorned with flowers dance, their pearl necklaces swaying, which means that the city is always full of festivals. In such a Nagapattinam, there are very tall mansions. The clouds, mistaking these mansions for mountains, gather at their peaks. The third Thiru-paadal: "Perumaiyir seri peroli pirangalin niraindhu thirumagatkku vaazh servidam aathalin yaavum tharuthalil kadal thanninum perithu enaith thirai pol kari ariththogai mani thukil sorivathaam kalaththaal." This city of Nagapattinam and the sea near it are both full of glory and resound with great noise. It is a dwelling place for Lakshmi. It provides all desired goods. Great clamor, a place where the goddess of wealth resides, and providing what is desired—these are the characteristics of the sea. The city of Nagapattinam also possesses these same characteristics. It is a coastal city. It is a commercial city. It is a port town, so ships from various countries arrive here. Therefore, trade flourishes greatly. Many goods such as elephants, horses, gems, and fine clothes are unloaded from the ships. The fourth Thiru-paadal: "Needu thol pugazh nilam pathinettinum niraindha peedu thangiya pala porul maanthargal perugi kodi needenak kudiyudan kuvalayam kaanum aadi mandalam polvathu av ani kilar moodhoor." From 18 countries, many glorious goods are imported here at the Nagapattinam port, and wealthy citizens thrive through extensive trade. People and goods from 18 countries abound in this city. Therefore, it is said to be the limit of wealth, and there are people with immense wealth. The 18 countries are 18 countries where 18 languages are spoken. Sinhala, Sonagam, Savagam, Cheenam, Thuluvam, Kudagam, Konganam, Kannadam, Kollam, Thelungam, Kalingam, Vangam, Gangam, Magatham, Kadaram, Gaudam, Kosalam, and Thamizhagam are the 18 countries where 18 languages are spoken. "Pandithar thangal 18 bashaiyum" is a Thirumandhiram. People from these countries gather here for trade. They bring very rare commercial goods from their respective countries. Now, the fifth Thiru-paadal: "A nedunth thirunagar marungu alaikkadal vilimbil pan nedunth thirai nurai thavizh paangarin nyangar mannu thonmayin valaivazhuththunavin malindha thanmai vaazh kudi midaiththathu thadanuzhaippaadi." Next to that long sacred city, on the edge of the wavy sea, there is a fishing village (Parathavar cheri) where many fishing communities (Parathavar kudigal) and fishermen live. This fishing profession is a stable and ancient occupation. The Parathavar people, who are very prosperous from this profession, live there. They live by eating the fish caught in their nets, selling them, and thus earning a lot of money. They are called Nuzhaiyar, and their dwelling place is called Nuzhaippaadi. Now, the next three Thiru-paadals describe the natural resources of this Nuzhaiyar cheri, the Parathavar cheri. The sixth Thiru-paadal: "Puyal alappan ena valai purambanai kurambai ayal alappan meen vilai pasum ponin adukkal viyalalakkrin viduththimil vaazhnargal konarndha kayal alappan paraththiyar karunedungankal." Fishermen go far into the sea in their fishing boats in the middle of the night, catch fish, and bring them back in the early morning. These boats are made by tying together many pieces of wood, so they are called Kattumaramthoni (catamaran boat). After the boat reaches the shore, the fishermen pull it onto the sand, arrange their ropes and nets, and organize themselves. In the boat they brought, they will have kept all the fish they caught in baskets. The fisherwomen, the Nuzhaichchiyar, will go as far as they can safely into the water's edge of the wavy sea, buy all the fish from the boat, and quickly come back to sort and sell them. Selling fish is the profession of fisherwomen, so on those days, these fisherwomen, as soon as they see the fish in the boat brought by the fishermen from a distance, will assess the price of the fish with their eyesight. The divine Sekkizhar Peruman explains all these details in the verse, "Viyalalakkrin viduththimil vaazhnargal konarndha kayal alappan paraththiyar karunedungankal." We can see this scene directly if we go to the beach in the early morning. Those who come to buy fish will have arrived earlier, near the huts of these Parathavar, and will be waiting to pay and receive the fish. The merchants who came to buy fish, knowing the high value and rarity of the fish, would offer gold coins accordingly and obtain all those fish. The seventh Thiru-paadal: "Unangal meen kavaroru nasai kurugudan anaindha kanangal othima karunjinai punnaiyam kaanal anangu nunnidai nuzhaichchiyar aaninadai kazhindhu manangul kombarin marungu nindru iliyala marulum." Birds gather with the desire to snatch the fish that are being dried. These birds come with the intention of snatching fish when the fish-selling women are distracted. Since this is a coastal area, there are water birds like storks in the water bodies here and there. There are also swans among them. These swans, enchanted by the gait of the fisherwomen, are ashamed that their own gait has been defeated, and hide themselves in the branches of the Punnai trees on the beach. The eighth Thiru-paadal: "Valai nedunthodar vadampudai valippavar oliyum vilai pagardhu meen kuvai koduppavar vizhi oliyum thalai sirandha velvalai soribavar thazhungoliyum alai nedungadal edhirolikku edhiroli anaiye." In this Thiru-paadal, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman shows us the sounds that arise there. The sound of those who pull and arrange the long ropes of the nets rises there. The sound of those who come to buy fish, those who offer piles of fish, and those who call out to buyers, rises there. The sound of those who bring and pile up white conches rises. These sounds are like echoes to the roaring sound of the vast sea. The ninth and tenth Thiru-paadals: "Anaiyathagiya annuzhaippaadiyal amarndhu manai valam poli nuzhaiyartham kulaththinil vandhaar punaiyilam pirai mudiyavar adiththondhu puriyum vinaivilangiya AdhiBaththar ena nigazh melor. Aangu anbar thaam nuzhaiyartham thalaivarai avargal engu then thiraikkadalidai palapada iyakkki paangu soozh valai valaiththu meen paduththu mun kuvikkum ongu pal kuvai uzhappila udaiyarai uyarvar. Muttil meen kolaiththozhil valaththavar valai mugandhu patta meenkalil oru thalai meen padudhorum nattamaadiya nambarukku ena naliru munnir vittu vandhanar vidaatha anbudan endrum viruppaal." The ninth Thiru-paadal here is the 4000th Thiru-paadal in Periyapuranam. Thus, in this Nuzhaippaadi, where they lived, AdhiBaththar, a devotee of Shiva, was born in the lineage of the Nuzhaiyar, who flourished with the prosperity of household life. He was a great person named AdhiBaththar, who excelled in the service of the feet of the Lord, who wears the crescent moon on His head. AdhiBaththar is a descriptive name. The Sanskrit word "Bhakti" comes as "Batthi" in Tamil. "Bhaktar" comes as "Batthar" accordingly. AdhiBaththar means AdhiBhaktar. Its meaning is one who has immense devotion. That devotee, AdhiBaththar, becomes the leader of the Nuzhaiyar, the fishermen. He performs various types of work in the sea. This involves performing many types of fishing work. He carries out this profession by operating many boats. As the leader of the fishermen, he also possesses the piles of fish that each fisherman gives as their share to their leader. He is elevated by worldly wealth and prosperity. He stands out not only in his lineage but also in his devotion to Shiva. Thus, he possesses immeasurable wealth in both aspects. Let us continue to reflect. Thiruchitrambalam.

Chapter 02 — AdhiBaththa Nayanar

Thiruchitrambalam. Periyapuranam, Part 973, composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. The section on Poiyadimai Illatha Pulavar Sarukkam, the Puranam of AdhiBaththa Nayanar. In the Periyapuranam composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman, the Puranam of AdhiBaththa Nayanar follows the Puranam of Narasinga Munaiyaraiyar Nayanar. In the seventh Thiru-paadal of the anthology Thiruththondaththogai, Sundaramurthi Swamigal praises AdhiBaththa Nayanar as follows: "Virithirai soozh kadal Nagai AdhiBaththarkku adiyen," meaning, "I am a servant to AdhiBaththa Nayanar, who was born in Nagapattinam, a coastal town surrounded by spreading waves." The meaning of this is that AdhiBaththa Nayanar, born in Nagapattinam, a coastal town surrounded by spreading waves, is someone to whom I am a servant. Nagapattinam is "Virithirai soozh kadal Nagai." "Viri" refers to the waves that rise gradually due to the wind, swell, and spread onto the shore. The city located on such a coast is called Nagai, or Nagapattinam. Nagam (Adiseshan) worshipped the Lord in this place, hence it is called Nagai and Nagapattinam. This city of Nagapattinam is a source of wealth and prosperity. Furthermore, AdhiBaththa Nayanar was born into the fishing community of Parathavar and, by engaging in the fishing profession, he remembered Lord Shiva, performed sacred service, and attained great blessings. The sea was the reason for this. The fact that Nagapattinam is a city on its shore is made clear by our Lord Sundaramurthi Swamigal, who praises him as "Virithirai soozh kadal Nagai AdhiBaththarkku adiyen." Now, in the 52nd Thiru-paadal of the anthology Thiruththondar Thiruvandhadhi, Nambiyandar Nambigal Peruman has composed a Thiru-paadal praising AdhiBaththa Nayanar. That Thiru-paadal is as follows: "Thiram amar meen padukkum pozhudhu aangoru meen Sivarkku endru ura amar maakadarkke viduvon oru naal kanaga niram amar meen pada ninmalarkku endru vitton kamalam puram amar Nagai AdhiBaththanagiya Poiyiliye." This Thiru-paadal means that when he caught a fish of excellent quality, he would release one such fish into the great sea, saying, "This is for Shiva." One day, when he caught a golden-colored fish, he released it into the sea, saying, "This is for the Immaculate One." He is AdhiBaththar, the truthful devotee, born in Nagai, where lotuses bloom. The fish caught in the sea are very large sea fish. They are very expensive. In addition, there are many types of fish. Fish come into the net. This is called "meen paduththal" (catching fish). This is a traditional custom. Whenever a good quality fish was caught, our AdhiBaththa Nayanar would think, "This is for Lord Shiva," and release that excellent fish into the great sea. One day, while living in this manner, a golden fish was caught in AdhiBaththa Nayanar's net. It was a golden fish, shining with precious gems, desired by all. AdhiBaththa Nayanar again released that fish into the sea, saying, "Let this be for Lord Shiva." He released it into the sea for Lord Shiva, the Immaculate One. He is AdhiBaththar, the truthful devotee, born in Nagapattinam, where lotuses bloom on its outskirts. This is the meaning of this anthology. Now, in the extensive work, Periyapuranam, composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman, in the section called Poiyadimai Illatha Pulavar Sarukkam, which is the eighth section, the Puranam of AdhiBaththa Nayanar is the fourth Puranam. This section describes the history and character of AdhiBaththa Nayanar. As the 43rd Thiru-puranam, the Puranam of AdhiBaththa Nayanar is explained in 20 Thiru-paadals by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. Now, the first Thiru-paadal: "Manniya needi sengkathiravan vazhi marabin thonmayaa mudal Chozhar tham thirukkulaththu urimai ponnin naadu enum karpaga poongodi malar pol nanmai saanradhu Nagappattinath thirunagaram." The lineage of the Chozhas is a tradition that came from the path of the sun. Similarly, the lineage of the Pandiyas is a tradition that came from the path of the moon. The lineage that came from the path of Agni is the Chera lineage. The Chozhas, who came from the glorious solar dynasty, had their own country, Chozha Nadu, also known as Ponni Nadu. Just as such a Ponni Nadu shines like a Karpaga creeper, the city of Nagapattinam is like a Karpaga flower that has bloomed on that Karpaga creeper. A Karpaga creeper gives whatever one desires. If we consider Karpagam as a tree, the Kaveri river is the Karpaga tree. The country through which it flows is the creeper that spreads on the Karpagam. Nagapattinam in that country is the flower of that Karpaga creeper. The divine Sekkizhar Peruman thus compares it, as this country provides all desired resources as needed. The fruit of a creeper is its flower; similarly, the fruit of the Chozha country is this city of Nagapattinam. This is a sacred city. It is a city of great prosperity due to its connection with Shiva. Nagapattinam is also praised as a Saiva Rajadhani (capital of Saivism). The divine Sekkizhar Peruman, according to his Puranic tradition, begins by describing the prosperity of the country, the prosperity of the city, the prosperity of the lineage in which the Nayanar was born, and their greatness. Now, the second Thiru-paadal: "Thama niththilak kovaigal sarindhida charindha the malarkkuzhal maathar pandhaadutha thettrigal soozh kaamar porchudar maaligai karungadal mugandha maamugil kula malaiyena veruva marungu." In Nagapattinam, on the platforms, women with hair adorned with flowers dance, their pearl necklaces swaying, which means that the city is always full of festivals. In such a Nagapattinam, there are very tall mansions. The clouds, mistaking these mansions for mountains, gather at their peaks. The third Thiru-paadal: "Perumaiyir seri peroli pirangalin niraindhu thirumagatkku vaazh servidam aathalin yaavum tharuthalil kadal thanninum perithu enaith thirai pol kari ariththogai mani thukil sorivathaam kalaththaal." This city of Nagapattinam and the sea near it are both full of glory and resound with great noise. It is a dwelling place for Lakshmi. It provides all desired goods. Great clamor, a place where the goddess of wealth resides, and providing what is desired—these are the characteristics of the sea. The city of Nagapattinam also possesses these same characteristics. It is a coastal city. It is a commercial city. It is a port town, so ships from various countries arrive here. Therefore, trade flourishes greatly. Many goods such as elephants, horses, gems, and fine clothes are unloaded from the ships. The fourth Thiru-paadal: "Needu thol pugazh nilam pathinettinum niraindha peedu thangiya pala porul maanthargal perugi kodi needenak kudiyudan kuvalayam kaanum aadi mandalam polvathu av ani kilar moodhoor." From 18 countries, many glorious goods are imported here at the Nagapattinam port, and wealthy citizens thrive through extensive trade. People and goods from 18 countries abound in this city. Therefore, it is said to be the limit of wealth, and there are people with immense wealth. The 18 countries are 18 countries where 18 languages are spoken. Sinhala, Sonagam, Savagam, Cheenam, Thuluvam, Kudagam, Konganam, Kannadam, Kollam, Thelungam, Kalingam, Vangam, Gangam, Magatham, Kadaram, Gaudam, Kosalam, and Thamizhagam are the 18 countries where 18 languages are spoken. "Pandithar thangal 18 bashaiyum" is a Thirumandhiram. People from these countries gather here for trade. They bring very rare commercial goods from their respective countries. Now, the fifth Thiru-paadal: "A nedunth thirunagar marungu alaikkadal vilimbil pan nedunth thirai nurai thavizh paangarin nyangar mannu thonmayin valaivazhuththunavin malindha thanmai vaazh kudi midaiththathu thadanuzhaippaadi." Next to that long sacred city, on the edge of the wavy sea, there is a fishing village (Parathavar cheri) where many fishing communities (Parathavar kudigal) and fishermen live. This fishing profession is a stable and ancient occupation. The Parathavar people, who are very prosperous from this profession, live there. They live by eating the fish caught in their nets, selling them, and thus earning a lot of money. They are called Nuzhaiyar, and their dwelling place is called Nuzhaippaadi. Now, the next three Thiru-paadals describe the natural resources of this Nuzhaiyar cheri, the Parathavar cheri. The sixth Thiru-paadal: "Puyal alappan ena valai purambanai kurambai ayal alappan meen vilai pasum ponin adukkal viyalalakkrin viduththimil vaazhnargal konarndha kayal alappan paraththiyar karunedungankal." Fishermen go far into the sea in their fishing boats in the middle of the night, catch fish, and bring them back in the early morning. These boats are made by tying together many pieces of wood, so they are called Kattumaramthoni (catamaran boat). After the boat reaches the shore, the fishermen pull it onto the sand, arrange their ropes and nets, and organize themselves. In the boat they brought, they will have kept all the fish they caught in baskets. The fisherwomen, the Nuzhaichchiyar, will go as far as they can safely into the water's edge of the wavy sea, buy all the fish from the boat, and quickly come back to sort and sell them. Selling fish is the profession of fisherwomen, so on those days, these fisherwomen, as soon as they see the fish in the boat brought by the fishermen from a distance, will assess the price of the fish with their eyesight. The divine Sekkizhar Peruman explains all these details in the verse, "Viyalalakkrin viduththimil vaazhnargal konarndha kayal alappan paraththiyar karunedungankal." We can see this scene directly if we go to the beach in the early morning. Those who come to buy fish will have arrived earlier, near the huts of these Parathavar, and will be waiting to pay and receive the fish. The merchants who came to buy fish, knowing the high value and rarity of the fish, would offer gold coins accordingly and obtain all those fish. The seventh Thiru-paadal: "Unangal meen kavarvuru nasai kurugudan anaindha kanangal othima karunjinai punnaiyam kaanal anangu nunnidai nuzhaichchiyar aaninadai kazhindhu manangul kombarin marungu nindru iliyala marulum." Birds gather with the desire to snatch the fish that are being dried. These birds come with the intention of snatching fish when the fish-selling women are distracted. Since this is a coastal area, there are water birds like storks in the water bodies here and there. There are also swans among them. These swans, enchanted by the gait of the fisherwomen, are ashamed that their own gait has been defeated, and hide themselves in the branches of the Punnai trees on the beach. The eighth Thiru-paadal: "Valai nedunthodar vadampudai valippavar oliyum vilaipagardhu meen kuvai koduppavar vizhi oliyum thalai sirandha velvalai soribavar thazhangu oliyum alai nedungadal edhirolikku edhiroli anaiye." In this Thiru-paadal, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman shows us the sounds that arise there. The sound of those who pull and arrange the long ropes of the nets rises there. The sound of those who come to buy fish, those who offer piles of fish, and those who call out to buyers, rises there. The sound of those who bring and pile up white conches rises. These sounds are like echoes to the roaring sound of the vast sea. The ninth and tenth Thiru-paadals: "Anaiyathagiya annuzhaippaadiyal amarndhu manai valam poli nuzhaiyartham kulaththinil vandhaar punaiyilam pirai mudiyavar adiththondhu puriyum vinai vilangiya AdhiBaththar ena nigazh melor. Aangu anbar thaam nuzhaiyartham thalaivarai avargal engu then thiraikkadalidai palapada iyakkki paangu soozh valai valaiththu meen paduththu mun kuvikkum ongu pal kuvai uzhappila udaiyarai uyarvar. Muttil meen kolaiththozhil valaththavar valai mugandhu patta meenkalil oru thalai meen padudhorum nattamaadiya nambarukku ena naliru munnir vittu vandhanar vidaatha anbudan endrum viruppaal." The ninth Thiru-paadal here is the 4000th Thiru-paadal in Periyapuranam. Thus, in this Nuzhaippaadi, where they lived, AdhiBaththar, a devotee of Shiva, was born in the lineage of the Nuzhaiyar, who flourished with the prosperity of household life. He was a great person named AdhiBaththar, who excelled in the service of the feet of the Lord, who wears the crescent moon on His head. AdhiBaththar is a descriptive name. The Sanskrit word "Bhakti" comes as "Batthi" in Tamil. "Bhaktar" comes as "Batthar" accordingly. AdhiBaththar means AdhiBhaktar. Its meaning is one who has immense devotion. That devotee, AdhiBaththar, becomes the leader of the Nuzhaiyar, the fishermen. He performs various types of work in the sea. This involves performing many types of fishing work. He carries out this profession by operating many boats. As the leader of the fishermen, he also possesses the piles of fish that each fisherman gives as their share to their leader. He is elevated by worldly wealth and prosperity. He stands out not only in his lineage but also in his devotion to Shiva. Thus, he possesses immeasurable wealth in both aspects. Let us continue to reflect. Thiruchitrambalam.