Chapter 01 — Poyyadiai illadha Nayanar

Tiruchitrambalam. Periyapuranam, Part 966, composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. The chapter of Argonda Vanamulaiyal, Kootruva Nayanar Puranam. Following the Gananaadha Nayanar Puranam in Periyapuranam, the Kootruva Nayanar Puranam is presented as the 39th Puranam. The divine Sekkizhar Peruman has explained this sacred history in eight verses. According to our tradition, first the compilation text (Thogai Nool), then the classification text (Vagai Nool), and then the elaborate text (Viri Nool) are presented. In this sequence, in the sixth verse of the Thirutthondathogai, which is the compilation text, Sundaramurthy Swamigal praises Kootruva Nayanar. He praises him saying, "Argonda Vel Kootran Kalandhaikkon Adiyen." The meaning of this is, "I am a servant of Kootruvar, the chief of the place called Kalandhai, who wields a sharp spear." In "Argonda Vel," "Ar" indicates sharpness. Now, in the 47th verse of the Thiruthondar Thiruvandhaadhi, which is the classification text, Nambiyandar Nambigal Swamigal praises Kootruva Nayanar in a verse that says: "Nadhan Thiruvadiye Mudiyagak Kavithu Nalla Bodham Karuthil Porithamaiyal Adhu Kaikkoduppa Odham Thazhuviya Gnanamellam Oru Kolin Vaithan Kodhai Nedumvel Kalappalanagiya Kootruvan." The meaning of this verse from Thiruthondar Thiruvandhaadhi is that Kootruva Nayanar, the chief of the place called Kalandhai, who wielded a long spear adorned with a garland, placed the sacred feet of Lord Shiva, which Shiva had bestowed upon him, as his royal crown. By imprinting the benevolent Shiva-gnana (divine wisdom) in his heart, that Shiva-gnana became his steadfast support, enabling him to rule over the entire ocean-encircled earth with a single scepter. Now, in the Thiruthondar Puranam, which is the elaborate text, the Kootruva Nayanar Puranam is the section that describes the history and character of Kootruva Nayanar. The divine Sekkizhar Peruman begins to narrate the Puranam of Kootruva Nayanar as the sixth Puranam in the Argonda Vanamulaiyal chapter, which is the seventh in the sequence. The first verse is: "Thunnar Munaigal Thol Valiyal Ventru Soolappadaiyar Tham Nal Namam Tham Thirunavil Naalum Navilu Nalamikkar Pannal Eesar Adiyartham Padham Paravip Panindhu Ethi Munnagiya Nal Thiruthondin Muyanrar Kalandhai Mudhalvanar." Kootruva Nayanar, the chief of the place called Kalandhai. Kalandhai is the place where Kootruva Nayanar was born and lived. It is currently known as Kalappal. At present, it is a place called Kalandhai, known as Kalappal, located in the Chola country, west of Thirutthuraippoondi, southwest of Thirukkalar, a short distance on the southern bank of the Mulliyaru river. There are also those who say that this is Ponvilaintha Kalathur, a village in Thondai Nadu. Thus, Kootruvan, the chief of Kalandhai, conquered all his enemies in battles with the strength of his shoulders. He was a person of great virtue, whose sacred tongue daily uttered the auspicious name of Shiva, the wielder of the trident, which bestows the blessing of liberation. He was devoted to the good deed of praising and worshipping the feet of the Lord's devotees for many days. The second verse: "Arulin Valiyal Arasu Odunga Avaniyellam Adippaduppar Porulin Mudivum Kaanpariya Vagaiyal Polivithu Igal Sirakka Marulum Kaliru Pay Puravi Manither Padaiñar Mudhal Matrar Verulum Karuvi Nangu Nirai Veera Cherukkin Melanaar." With the support of Shiva's divine grace, Kootruva Nayanar made all kings bow down in fear and brought the entire earth under his rule. Kootruva Nayanar was not actually a king. However, seeing his strength, even crowned kings feared him and retreated in defeat. Thus, he achieved victory and maintained the four types of armies. He accumulated immeasurable wealth, gold, and other precious materials necessary to exercise universal authority. He was supremely excellent in the pride and glory born of valor, using the four types of armies—elephant cavalry, horse cavalry, chariot cavalry, and infantry—as his instruments. The third verse: "Ventri Vinaiyin Meekkoora Vendhar Munaigal Pala Murukki Sentru Thumbai Thurai Mudithum Cheruvil Vagai Thiram Kezhumu Mandal Malai Milainthavar Tham Valanadu Ellam Kavarndhu Mudi Ondrum Ozhia Arasar Thiru Ellam Udaiyar Ayinar." In the act of achieving victory, he engaged in many great wars with kings, overcoming their resistance. After completing the acts of war, which involve wearing the Thumbai flower, and after achieving victory in those wars, he wore the Vaagai garland. He then seized the prosperous lands of the kings and ruled over them. The Thumbai and Vaagai mentioned here are external divisions (Purathinai) described in Tamil literature under the category of Purapporul. These are categories ranging from Vetci to Thumbai. Among them, Thumbai and Vaagai are the final divisions. Thumbai refers to war, and Vaagai refers to victory in war. Therefore, those who engage in war wear the Thumbai flower. Those who achieve victory wear the Vaagai flower. Thus, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman mentions here, "after completing the Thumbai division and adorning the garland fragrant with the Vaagai's prowess." Vaagai is the external division that signifies conquering enemies. It is customary for victors to wear the Vaagai garland. These classifications can be found in grammatical texts such as Tholkappiyam, Panniru Padalam, and Purapporul Venbamalai. Thus, Kootruva Nayanar, who achieved victory, possessed all the attributes of a king, except for one: the crown of nine gems (Navamani Mudi), which is considered very important among the ten royal insignia (Dasangam). He was not of royal lineage, and therefore, he did not wear the crown. However, he excelled in possessing all other attributes of kings. The fourth verse: "Mallal Gnanam Purakkinrar Manima Mavuli Punaiyavarku Thillai Vazh Andhanar Thammai Venda Avarum Sembiyar Tham Thollai Needum Kula Mudhalorkku Andri Soottom Mudi Endru Nalkaragi Cheralan Than Malainadu Anaiya Nannuvar." Kootruva Nayanar, who protected this prosperous world, requested the Brahmins of Thillai (Chidambaram) to crown him with the great crown adorned with precious gems. It was a tradition of the Chola kings that their crown of nine gems was kept safely in the Thillai Perambalam Bhandaram, under the divine protection of Lord Nataraja, by the Thillai Brahmins. When Chola kings were to be crowned, this jeweled crown was given to them by the Thillai Brahmins. After the coronation, it was returned to the Thillai Perambalam Bhandaram in the Thillai temple and guarded by the Thillai Brahmins. Thus, we learn about the close connection between the Thillai Brahmins and the Chola kings through historical records and inscriptions. The Cholas had five capital cities for their coronations: Kaveripoompattinam, Thiruvarur, Uraiyur, Karur, and Sengalur. Therefore, after receiving the jeweled crown from the Thillai Brahmins for the coronation ceremony, they would perform the coronation in one of these five cities. After the ceremony, the crown would be returned to the custody of the Thillai Brahmins, under the protection of Lord Nataraja. We see that Hiranyavarman and others of the Surya dynasty were crowned in Thillai.

Therefore, we also see that it was the responsibility of the Thillai Brahmins to ensure the stability and proper conduct of the Chola kings' reign. We observe the connection of the Chola kings with the Thillai Thiruchitrambalam, their gold-plating of the Chitrambalam, Perambalam, and various other places within the Thillai boundaries. We also see other historical accounts, such as the period when Lord Ambalakoothar resided in Thiruvarur during later foreign invasions. The divine Sekkizhar Peruman, the great teacher who held ministerial authority under Anapaya Chola, who was the chief of the Chola lineage and made the Perambalam and the Thillai boundaries golden, was well aware of all these royal traditions. Therefore, he explains them to us here. Thus, Kootruva Nayanar requested the Thillai Brahmins to crown him. However, the Thillai Brahmins stated that they would only crown those who belonged to the ancient lineage of the Cholas and would not crown others. Therefore, the Thillai Brahmins did not agree to crown Kootruva Nayanar. Since they opposed the king's wish, the Thillai Brahmins went to the mountainous country of the Chera king. They feared remaining there because they had opposed the ruler's will, so they went to the Chera country. Thus, it is understood that the Chera country was not under the rule of Kootruva Nayanar. When they went to the Chera country, they left only one family from their community in Thillai. One family had to remain there for performing pujas to Lord Koothaperuman and for guarding the sacred ornaments. Therefore, they also left that one family to guard the crown. The divine Sekkizhar Peruman explains this in the fifth verse. "Orumai Urimai Thillai Vazh Andhanargal Thammil Oru Kudiyai Perumai Mudiyai Arumai Puri Kaval Penumbadi Iruthi Irumai Marabum Thuyavar Tham Serar Nattil Eythiya Pin Varum Aiyuraval Manam Thalarndhu Mandril Aadum Kazhal Panivar." The Thillai Brahmins, who possessed a singular right, meaning their adherence to a single righteous path and their right to preserve and crown the royal diadem for the Chola lineage, left one family among themselves to diligently guard the precious crown. The other Thillai Brahmins then went to the Chera country. Kootruva Nayanar meditated upon and worshipped the sacred feet of Lord Koothaperuman. How? This is explained in the sixth verse. "Atrai Naalil Iravin Kan Adiyen Thanaku Mudiyagap Petra Peru Malarppadham Pera Vendum Ena Paravum Patru Vidathu Thuyilvorkku Kanavil Padha Malar Alikka Utra Arulal Avai Thangi Ulagam Ellam Thani Purandhar." When the Thillai Brahmins refused to crown him, and the coronation he desired did not take place, Kootruva Nayanar, not knowing what else to do, meditated upon and worshipped the feet of the Lord. The jeweled crown was with the Thillai Brahmins. They alone had the right to crown him. Among the Thillai Brahmins, Lord Koothaperuman was also one. Therefore, Kootruva Nayanar worshipped the feet of Lord Nataraja and requested to be crowned. We should recall here that in the Thillai Vazh Andhanar Puranam, the praise of Lord Nataraja was mentioned first. Therefore, Kootruva Nayanar, praying that he should receive the Lord's lotus-like feet as his crown, fell asleep, continuously meditating on the Lord's feet. In his dream, Lord Koothaperuman appeared and crowned Kootruva Nayanar with His own feet. With that divine grace, Kootruva Nayanar bore those feet as his crown and ruled the entire world uniquely.

Kootruva Nayanar ruled. All jeweled crowns are perishable material objects. The lotus feet of the Lord are of the nature of knowledge, imperishable forever. We see in the eighth sutra of Sivagnanabodham, "A great light, which is supreme knowledge, knows everything in one nature, and that is the crown." Therefore, Kootruva Nayanar, even while sleeping, did not lose the thought of being subservient to the Lord's feet, which are knowledge. Thus, Lord Nataraja of Thillai crowned Kootruva Nayanar with His own feet. Kootruva Nayanar bore those sacred feet as his crown and ruled with unparalleled authority. The seventh verse: "Ampon Needum Ambalathul Aara Amudhat Thirunadam Sey Thampiranar Puviyil Magizh Koyil Ellam Thanithaniyee Imbar Gnanam Kalikkoora Eythum Perum Poosanai Iyatri Umbar Magizha Arasu Aliththe Umai Yaal Kanavan Adi Serndhar." Kootruva Nayanar arranged for grand pujas to be performed individually in all the temples where the Lord, who performs the divine dance of inexhaustible nectar in the beautiful golden hall, joyfully resides on this earth. Ensuring that pujas are performed without fail in the Lord's temples is one of the most important duties of a king. We see this in various places in Periyapuranam. Therefore, Kootruva Nayanar provided everything needed for the temples individually. In these days, temple authorities who offer the same sacred food prepared for one temple to all other temple deities should read this and improve their conduct. He performed these pujas for the joy and prosperity of this world. This is called Parartha Puja. All pujas performed in temples are done by the king for the well-being of the world. If these are done well, the world will flourish happily. If not, the world will suffer. Thirumooladeva Nayanar, in Thirumandiram, taught that if temple pujas are hindered, it will bring harm to the king, reduce wealth, and increase deceit and theft in the world, as per the Shiva Agamas. A righteous rule, conducted according to moral principles, becomes a cause for rain and also for the worship of celestial beings. Therefore, Kootruva Nayanar ruled in such a way that the world rejoiced through the Lord's pujas and the gods rejoiced through his reign. Having done all this, Kootruva Nayanar attained Sayujya Mukti, the sacred feet of Lord Shiva, the consort of Uma. Now, the eighth and concluding verse in the Kootruva Nayanar Puranam: "Kadhal Perumai Thondin Nilai Kadal Soozh Vaiyam Kaathu Alithu Kothu Angu Agala Muyal Kalandhai Kootranar Tham Kazhal Vanangi Nadha Marai Thandhu Alithar Nadai Nool Pavil Navitru Ethum Bodham Maruvi Poyyadimai Illa Pulavar Seyal Pugazhvam Endru." The meaning of this verse is: "We shall now praise the actions of the poets who, with true devotion and unwavering commitment, worshipped the feet of Kootruva Nayanar of Kalandhai, who protected the ocean-encircled world with great love and devotion, striving to remove all impurities. These poets, imbued with divine wisdom, praised and glorified the Lord who bestowed the Vedas and protected the world through their excellent literary works, free from any false servitude." Thus, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman concludes the sacred Puranam of Kootruva Nayanar and now introduces the next chapter, "Poyyadimai Illadha Pulavar Sarukkam" (Chapter of Poets Without False Servitude), with the first Puranam being "Poyyadimai Illadha Pulavar Puranam." This is how he sets the stage. Thus, the sacred Puranams of the Nayanmars mentioned in the sixth verse of Thiruthondathogai conclude here. The concluding line of Thiruthondathogai is "Aruran Aruril Ammanukku Aale." In accordance with this, Nambiyandar Nambigal, in the Thiruthondar Thiruvandhaadhi, composed a praise for Sundaramurthy Swamigal, and similarly, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman also includes a praise for Sundaramurthy Nayanar at the end of each chapter. In that context, "Aruran Aruril Ammanukku Aale" is the line from the compilation text. The meaning of this is that Nambi Arurar (Sundaramurthy Swamigal) is not only a servant to the Nayanmars mentioned earlier but also a servant to the Lord residing in Thiruvarur. Now, in the classification text, the 48th verse of Thiruthondar Thiruvandhaadhi, composed by Nambiyandar Nambigal as a praise to Sundaramurthy Nayanar, is: "Kootruku Evanu Pugal Thiruvaruran Ponmudimel Yetru Thodaiyalum In Adaikkayum Idu Tharumak Kootrathuk Koonanum Koon Poy Kurudanum Kan Petramai Satrith Thiriyum Pazhamozhiyam Iththaraniyile." What refuge is there for Yama (the god of death)? What refuge is there for Yama with us who praise Sundaramurthy Swamigal? There is none anywhere. Such is Nambi Arurar. The lame man who offered the garland placed on his golden crown and the sweet betel nut (adaikkai amudhu) that he consumed, lost his lameness. The blind man regained his sight. This is the ancient saying that circulates on this earth, proclaiming this divine miracle. In this world where people wander, praising Sundaramurthy Swamigal and seeking refuge in his sacred feet, what refuge is there for Yama? There is none anywhere. This is the meaning of this verse. Now, in the elaborate text, the praise of Sundaramurthy Swamigal composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman, which is the praise for this chapter, is the 3938th verse in Periyapuranam, as follows: "Thenum Kuzhalum Pizhaitha Thirumozhiyal Pulavi Theerkka Madhi Thaanum Paniyum Pagai Theerkkum Sadaiyar Thoodhu Tharum Thirunaal Koonum Kurudum Theerthu Eval Kolvar Kulavu Malarppadham Yaanum Paravith Theerkkindren Ezhu Pirappin Mudangu Koon Endru." The divine Sekkizhar Peruman states that on that sacred day when the Lord, whose matted locks resolve the enmity between the moon and the snake, acted as a messenger to resolve the lovers' quarrel of Paravai Ammaiyar, whose sweet words surpassed honey and the flute, Nambi Arurar, Sundaramurthy Swamigal, cured the lameness of the lame and the blindness of the blind and accepted their service. I too praise his lotus-like feet and cure my own lameness, which is the state of being bent and confined within the womb in seven types of births, and my blindness, which is the ignorance that obscures knowledge, preventing me from knowing the way to transcend this birth. The divine miraculous event mentioned in these two verses (Thiruthondar Thiruvandhaadhi and Periyapuranam) is the straightening of the lame person's lameness and the restoration of sight to the blind person. This divine miracle occurred when the Lord acted as a messenger for Sundaramurthy Swamigal to Paravai Ammaiyar twice. After the Lord, as a messenger, bestowed His grace the second time, Sundaramurthy Swamigal proceeded from the Devasiriya Mandapam to Paravai Ammaiyar's sacred dwelling. At that time, all the attendants gathered there before Sundaramurthy Swamigal arrived. The attendants stood there, holding garlands, sandalwood paste, and other items, ready to proceed. Among these attendants were a lame man and a blind man. They also wished to carry garlands, sandalwood, and other items. However, due to their physical disabilities, they were unable to carry these. When they appealed to Sundaramurthy Swamigal, by his divine grace, the lame man's lameness was cured, and the blind man regained his sight. Then, joining the other attendants, they carried the garlands, sandalwood, and sacred betel nut (adaikkai amudhu) and proceeded to Paravai Ammaiyar's sacred dwelling. This is the sacred history. By worshipping the sacred feet of Sundaramurthy Swamigal, who performed such a divine miracle, our own lameness and blindness can also be cured. Our lameness is the lameness of being confined in seven types of births. It is the state of being bent and confined within the womb in countless instances across seven types of births. This is the lameness of living beings. Curing this lameness means ending birth. Now, the blindness of living beings is the veil of ego that obscures knowledge, preventing them from knowing the way to transcend this birth.

Sundaramurthy Swamigal is capable of curing this lameness and blindness of living beings and accepting their service, just as he cured the lame and the blind in Thiruvarur and accepted their service. We learn from this sacred history that the sacred feet of Sundaramurthy Swamigal are capable of curing our birth-lameness and birth-blindness. Therefore, by praising the feet of Sundaramurthy Swamigal, we shall cut off birth and attain salvation. The divine Sekkizhar Peruman shows us through this praise that the worship of Sundaramurthy Swamigal's feet is capable of cutting off birth. Thus, the seventh chapter of Thiruthondar Puranam, "Varkonda Vanamulaiyal Sarukkam," concludes. Now, we shall proceed to contemplate the eighth chapter, "Poyyadimai Illadha Pulavar Sarukkam," and within it, the "Poyyadimai Illadha Pulavar Puranam." Tiruchitrambalam.