Chapter 01 — Chadaiya Nayanar

Thiruchitrambalam. Periyapuranam, Part 1020, composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. The Puranam of Chadaiya Nayanar, from the Manniya Seercharukkam. In the Periyapuranam composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman, the Puranam of Chadaiya Nayanar is the fifth Puranam within the 12th charukkam, the Manniya Seercharukkam. In chronological order, the Puranam of Chadaiya Nayanar is the 70th Thiruppuranam. Firstly, in the 11th verse of the Thiruthondathogai, a collection of hymns, composed by our Lord Sundaramurthy Swamigal, he sings, "Ennavanaam Aran adiye adainthitta Chadaiyan, Isaignani Kaathalan, Thirunavalur Kon." Here, he praises Chadaiya Nayanar as "Ennavanaam Aran adiye adainthitta Chadaiyan." Chadaiya Nayanar is the revered father of our Lord Sundaramurthy Swamigal. Sundaramurthy Swamigal refers to his revered father as "Ennavanaam Aran adiye adainthitta Chadaiyan," his revered mother as "Isaignani," and himself as "Thirunavalur Kon," the beloved of these two. Accordingly, the Puranam of Chadaiya Nayanar is the 70th Thiruppuranam. The reason for this arrangement is the Thiruthondar Thiruvandathi composed by Nambiandar Nambigal Peruman. In its 84th verse, Nambiandar Nambigal Peruman praises Chadaiya Nayanar. Sundaramurthy Swamigal states, "I, the leader of Thirunavalur, am the beloved of Chadaiya Nayanar, who attained the feet of Lord Shiva, my Lord, and Isaignani." "Ennavanaam" means "He who is my Lord." It refers to Lord Shiva. "En avan" means "He who is my Lord." "Avan" and "Ivan" denote the meaning of Mahavakyas. Here, "Avan" refers to Lord Shiva as the meaning of the word "Tat." The Vedas describe Lord Shiva as the meaning of the word "Tat." He is the one who owns me. Chadaiya Nayanar sought refuge solely at the feet of such a Lord Shiva. This is the meaning of "Ennavanaam Aran adiye adainthitta Chadaiyan." Here, Sundaramurthy Swamigal praises both Chadaiya Nayanar and Isaignani by declaring himself their beloved. Therefore, Nambiandar Nambigal Peruman composed two verses in the Thiruthondar Thiruvandathi, praising them and narrating their history. Consequently, the divine Sekkizhar Peruman has blessed us by composing separate Puranams for each of them, structured as hymns. Now, in the Thiruthondar Thiruvandathi, a descriptive work, Nambiandar Nambigal Peruman praises Chadaiya Nayanar in the 84th verse. That verse is: "Thalam vilangum Thirunavalur thannil Chadaiyan ennum kulam vilangum pugazhonai uraippar kuvalayaththin nalam vilangumbadi naam vilangumbadi natthavaththin palam vilangumbadi Aruranai mun payanthame." The meaning of this is that in the sacred place of Thirunavalur, which shines on this earth, Chadaiyan, who possesses fame that illuminates the lineage of Shiva Brahmins, is praised by all scholars for having begotten Nambi Arurar, so that all good things may flourish in this world, that we may shine and prosper, and that the fruit of good penance may become manifest. "Thalam vilangumbadi" means "for the place to shine." "Thalam" refers to the earth. "Thalam vilanguthal" means "for this world to shine with glory." The sacred place that caused this is Thirunavalur. This is because Thirunavalur is blessed to be the place where the supreme acharya of Shaivism incarnated. This Nayanar was born with the sacred name Chadaiyan in such a sacred place. "Chadaiyan" is a name of the Lord. It is customary to name children after Him. His fame illuminates his lineage. He possesses fame that causes his lineage to be glorified. Through his fame, his lineage, the lineage of Shiva Brahmins, was glorified. All good things in this world...

...all good things will flourish. "Nalam" refers to the best of all good things. It is called Shivneri (the path of Shiva). For it to flourish, and for us to flourish, means for living beings to attain salvation by following Shivneri, which is the best of all good things. And for the fruit of good penance to flourish, penance is Shiva Puja. The lineage of penance is the community of devotees who perform Shiva Puja. The fruit of penance is to attain the path to Shiva. This refers to the manner in which the world was guided by the composition of the Thiruthondathogai. All scholars will praise Chadaiya Nayanar in this way for having begotten such a Nambi Arurar, Sundaramurthy Swamigal. Now, in the Periyapuranam, the extensive work composed by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman, the Puranam of Chadaiya Nayanar is explained to us by the divine Sekkizhar Peruman in one verse. That verse is as follows: "Thambiranai thozhamai kondu aruli thamathu thadambuyam ser kompanar paal oru thoodhu sella evikkondu arulum Embiranaai Cheraman Perumal inaiyil thunaivaraam Nambi Arurarai payanthar gnanamellaam kudi vaazha." This verse means that Chadaiya Nayanar begot our Lord Sundaramurthy Swamigal so that all living beings in this world may live prosperously. The greatness of our Lord Sundaramurthy Swamigal is that he made Lord Shiva, his master, his friend. Moreover, our Lord Sundaramurthy Swamigal is the Lord who commanded Lord Shiva, his master, to go as a messenger to his beloved. Nambi Arurar is the incomparable companion of Cheraman Perumal Nayanar. Chadaiya Nayanar begot such a glorious Nambi Arurar, Sundaramurthy Swamigal, so that all living beings in this world may live prosperously. Sundaramurthy Swamigal is the one who befriended Thambiran (Lord Shiva). It is improper to consider one's superior master as an equal friend. But our Lord Sundaramurthy Swamigal is the one who possessed such a quality. Not only that, Sundaramurthy Swamigal is the one who made Lord Shiva, his master, carry out his commands. Even though that is also improper, he possessed such a quality. Generally, commanding someone is improper. And sending him as a messenger to his own wife is also improper, but Sundaramurthy Swamigal possessed such greatness. The divine Sekkizhar Peruman, through this "nindasthuti" (praise disguised as blame), reveals the incomparable love and excellence of our Lord Sundaramurthy Swamigal. Sending a messenger to "kompanar" here refers to Paravai Ammaiyar and, in a way, Sangili Ammaiyar. Such a Lord Sundaramurthy Swamigal was the incomparable companion of Cheraman Perumal Nayanar. Our Lord Sundaramurthy Swamigal was known by the name Cheraman Thozhar (Friend of Cheraman). The mention of Cheraman Perumal Nayanar here indicates the future event of these two great souls ascending to Thirukailayam together. Chadaiya Nayanar begot such a Nambi Arurar, so that all the inhabitants of the world may live prosperously. "Kudi" refers to living beings, the lineage of elements, as we have seen. Chadaiya Nayanar was the father who begot Sundaramurthy Swamigal, who incarnated so that all the living beings of this world may live steadfastly in the grace of the Lord. Thus, the history of Chadaiya Nayanar is that he begot and gave us our Lord Sundaramurthy Swamigal. This verse states that Chadaiya Nayanar is a great person, as he begot a son for the salvation of the world, just as it is seen in the Thaduthatkondapuranam that he incarnated for the salvation of the world. Through this one verse, the divine poet, Sekkizhar Peruman, has implicitly shown the entire history of Sundaramurthy Swamigal, from the incident of his being stopped and claimed by the Lord to his ascent to Thirukailayam on the white elephant, and has also shown the greatness of Chadaiya Nayanar, in whom all that glory resides, for having begotten him and given him to the world.

Such is the divine poetic excellence of the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. Thus concludes the Thiruppuranam of Chadaiya Nayanar. Next, we will contemplate the Thiruppuranam of Isaignani Ammaiyar. Praise, praise to the sacred feet of our Lord Chadaiya Nayanar. Praise, praise to the sacred feet of our Lord Sundaramurthy Swamigal. Praise, praise to the sacred feet of Nambiandar Nambigal Peruman. Praise, praise to the sacred feet of the divine Sekkizhar Peruman. Praise, praise to the sacred feet of the commentator, Sivakavimani Ayya. Thiruchitrambalam.